<Read from Image><Page Start>Registered No. 1184193

ASPEN INSURANCE UK LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019

FRIDAY

*AQ63YLSN*
A21

29/05/2020 #300 = +
COMPANIES HOUSE :

,

Ef]
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

CONTENTS

THE COMPANY
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIRECTORS' REPORT

STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASPEN INSURANCE UK LIMITED.

INCOME STATEMENT: TECHNICAL ACCOUNT
INCOME STATEMENT: NON TECHNICAL ACCOUNT
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

BALANCE SHEET

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Registered Number: 1184393

Page

id |
<Page End><Page Start>THE COMPANY

Directors
Michael Cain
Grahame Dawe
Hannah Purves
Tim Leggett
Peter Webster
Gordon Ireland
Natalie Waller
Theresa Froehlich

Secretary
Helen Lipscomb

Auditor

KPMG LLP

15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Registered Office
30 Féiichuiréh Siréét
London

EC3M 3BD

Registered in England No. 1184193

Legal Advisor

D Wilkie Farr & Gallagher LLP

1 Ropemaker Street
City Point

London

EC2Y 9HT

Banker

Deutsche Bank AG
6 Bishopsgate
London

EC2N 4DA

Director

Director

Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

4
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

STRATEGIC REPORT
The Directors present the Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2019.

Overview

On 15 February 2019, in accordance with the merger agreement between Apollo Global Management and Aspen Insurance -
Holdings Limited (“AIHL' ”), ATHL merged with Highlands Merger Sub, Limited, a company incorporated i in Bermuda and
wholly owned subsidiary of Highiands Holdings, Limited, a company incorporated i in Bermuda. As aresult, from 15 February
2019, Highlands Holdings, Limited is the new ultimate parent company of Aspen Insurance UK Limited (“the Company”
or “ATUK”).

This was a transitional year for the Company. Following the Merger we undertook a number of actions to strengthen the
fundamentals of the company and better position the business to create value over the tong term.

Underwriting Portfolio Review

We undertook a strategic review of our underwriting portfolio and decided to wind down business that did not meet our
underwriting performance criteria. We also took strategic steps to reduce volatility in the underwriting portfolio by reducing
catastrophe exposure. .

In 2019 we ceased underwriting U.K. regional business through an agency agreement with Aspen Risk Management Limited
¢« “ARML® ), a managing general agency. The ARML business consisted of professional liability and property and casualty
coverages for smail to medium sized U.K.-based businesses. The ARML business was placed into runoff in August 2019.
AIUK has assumed ARML's underwriting administration and claims handling obligations for the run-off business. In
November 2019 Arch Reinsurance and the Company jointly announced that Arch Re has. entered into a renewal rights
agreement with the Company on its global credit and surety reinsurance business after our decision to exit the line.

In 2020 we have placed both marine and energy liability and accident and health lines of business into runoff in February
2020 and March 2020, respectively.

Operationai Streamiining

We also undertook initiatives to align our office locations more closely with our customers. and to streamline the structure.
ofour operations. While we closed branches and/or offices in Dubai, Miami and Dublin, we were able to transfer the business
generated by those offices to other locations.

Aspen Bermuda established a branch in Zurich, Switzerland in 2019 to write property and casualty reinsurance with inception
dates of January 1, 2020 and later. This business has previously been written in AIUK. Gross written premium for 2019 was
$94.7m.

Repositioning Reinsurance Coverage
We repositioned certain of our external reinsurance coverage arrangements from quota share reinsurance to targeted excess
of loss agreements.

In March 2020, the Group, with ATUK as a named party, entered into an adverse development reinsurance agreement with
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Enstar Group Limited (“Enstar”). Under this agreement the Group will reinsure losses incurred
on or prior to December 31, 2019. Enstar' ‘Ss subsidiary will provide $770 million ofe cover in excess of $3. ‘805 billion retention
payable under this contract, will be allocated across the various operating subsidiaries within the Aspen Group based on risk
adjusted reserve run off projections. Completion of the transaction is subject to Board approvals and satisfaction of various

other closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2020.

On 26 March 2020, Standard & Poor's announced that they had downgraded their ratings on AIUK to A- outlook stable from
Aoutlook negative. The Company has taken clear steps to improve performance, strengthen the balance sheet and capital
‘position, and insulate itself from future losses.on older accident years through the adverse development reinsurance cover
referred to above. S&P have acknowledged these changes and simultaneously upgraded the Aspen Group's financial risk
profile from ‘satisfactory' to ‘strong' and its capital and earnings from ‘very strong' to ‘excellent'. On April 1, 2620, A.M.

Best affirmed the financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) for AIUK but revised its outlook to negative from stable. The
Company does not believe that these rating actions will in any way compromise our ability to service the needs of our
customers and trading partners or our obligations to them.
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

“Financial Results
The financial results for the Company reflect a profit before tax for the year of $8.6m (2018: loss of $39.2m). This comprised:
+ an underwriting loss before investment income of $85.0m (2018: $89.2m loss);
- other expenses of $21.8m (2018: other income of $51.5m); offset by
- an investment retum of $115.4m (2018: investment loss of $1.9m).
The underwriting loss of $85.0m (2018: $89.2m loss) reflected a $79.0m loss in the Company's reinsurance segment and a
$6.0m loss in the insurance segment.

The reinsurance segment loss included Catastrophe losses associated with Typhoons Hagibis and Faxai ($16.8m and $9.9m
respectively) and a $13.9m loss in Credit & Surety from the failure of Thomas Cook. There was additional prior year
deterioration on Typhoon Jebi and onthe US Casualty, satellite and bloodstock books, which was partially offset by favourable
development on Intemational Casualty. The $79.0m reinsurance segment underwriting loss in 2019 increased from a loss of
$73.5m in 2018. The prior year saw a number of material Cat events.

The $6.0m insurance segment loss in 2019 reflected adverse prior year development on Marine & Energy Liability and
Accident & Health lines. Due to this deterioration, we ceased underwriting Marine & Energy Liability in February 2020 and
Accident & Health lines in March 2020. The overall insurance segment loss in 2018 was $15.7m.

‘Other expenses of $21.8m related principally to foreign exchange losses.

The investment return of $115.4m (2018: $1.9m loss), included income from government and corporate bonds and other
investments of $60.0m (2018: $62. im). The main reason for the significant increase in the overaii return in 2019 was
unrealised gains in the value of financial instruments (principally government and corporate bonds) of $55.9m, compared
to an unrealised loss in 2018 of $25.2m. The gains were driven by movements in US interest rates.

The Company met its ratings agency and regulatory capital requirements throughout 2019 and remains adequately capitalised
for the future. As at 31 December 2019, the Company was a direct subsidiary undertaking of Aspen European Holdings
Limited (‘AEHL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of AIHL. AEHL's registered office is 30 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M
3BD.

For 2020, ATUK will continue to focus on its chosen markets, seeking a positive return through focused underwriting and
client service.
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Overview of the Business

‘The Company is authorised by the United Kingdom Prudential Regulation Authority to underwrite all eighteen classes of
insurance and reinsurance business. The Company is rated A (Excellent) by AM Best and A- (Strong) by Standard & Poor's.
An analysis of the technical. account by segment for the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 is set out below.

For the Year Ended 31 December 2019

Reinsurance Insurance Total
(Sin millions)

Gross written premiums ; 929.5 398.0 1,327.5
Gross earned premiums 959.5 410.9 1,370.4
Net earned premium : S4h.1 94.6 635.7
Net incurred claims (360.0) (70.4) (430.4)
Expenses (260.1) (30.2) (290.3)
Underwriting loss before investment income (79.0) (6.0) (85.0)
Investment return 115.4
Balance on technical account 30.4
Nef laiitis ratid 67% TAY 68%
Expense ratio : 48% 32% 46%
Combined ratio 115% 106% 114%

For the Year Ended 31 December 2018

Reinsurance Insurance Total
~~ {Sin millions)

Gross written premiums 1,021.9 453.3 1,475.2
Gross earned premiums 1,060.5 454.0 1,514.5
Net eamed premium 484.6 63.5 548.1
Net incurred claims : (336.0) (46.2) (382.2)
Expenses : (222.1) (3.0) (255.1)
Underwriting loss before investment income (73.5) (15.7) (89.2)
Investment loss (1.9)
Balance on technical account . OLD
Net Gains ratio 69% 3% 70%
Expense ratio 46% 52% 47T%
Combined ratio 115% 125% 117%

We use the net claims ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios
are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the amount of losses and loss adjustment
expenses, and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would be incurred.

Reinsurance Segment
The reinsurance segment consists of property, casualty and specialty reinsurance. A more detailed analysis of the business
written within these classes is as follows:

Property Catastrophe Reinsurance

Property catastrophe reinsurance is generally written on a treaty excess of loss basis where the Company provides protection
to an insurer for an agreed portion of the total losses from a single event in excess of a specified loss amount. In the event
of a loss, most contracts provide for coverage of a second occurrence following the payment of a premium to reinstate the
coverage under the contract, which is referred to as a reinstatement premium. The coverage provided under excess of loss
reinsurance contracts may be on a worldwide basis or limited in scope to selected regions or geographical areas.
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Other Property Reinsurance

Other property reinsurance includes Property risks written on excess of loss and proportional treaties, facultative or single
risk reinsurance. Risk excess of loss reinsurance provides coverage to a reinsured where it experiences a loss in excess of
its retention level on a single “risk basis. A “risk” in this context might mean the insurance coverage on one building or a
group of buildings for fire or explosion or the insurance coverage under a single policy which the reinsured treats as a single
risk. This line of business is generally less exposed to accumulations of exposures and losses but can stilt be impacted by
natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes and hurricanes.

Proportional treaty reinsurance provides proportional coverage to the reinsured, meaning that, subject to event limits where
applicable and ceding commissions, the Company pays the same share of the covered original losses as itreceives in premiums
charged for the covered risks. Proportional contracts typically involve close client relationships which often include regular
audits of the cedants' data.

Casualty Reinsurance

Casualty reinsurance is written on an excess of loss, proportional and facultative basis and consists of U.S. treaty, international
treaty and casualty facultative reinsurance. The Company's U.S. treaty business comprises exposures to workers'
compensation (including catastrophe), medical malpractice, general liability, auto liability, professional liability and excess
liability including umbrella liability. The Company's intemational treaty business reinsures exposures mainly with respect
to general liability, auto liability, professional liability, workers' compensation and excess liability.

Speciaity Reinsurance

Specialty reinsurance is written on an excess of loss and proportional basis and consisted of credit and surety reinsurance,
agriculture reinsurance, mortgage reinsurance and i insurance, marine, aviation, terrorism, engineering, cyber and other
specialty lines. The Company': 's credit and surety reinsurance business consists of trade credit, surety (mainly European,
Japanese and Latin Ameri¢an risks) and mortgage reinsurance and insurance and political risks. The Company's agricultural
reinsurance business covers crop and multi-peril business. Other specialty lines include reinsurance treaties and some
insurance policies covering policyholders' interests in marine, energy, aviation liability, space, contingency, engineering,
terrorism, nuclear and personal accident. In October 2019, we ceased writing credit and surety reinsurance and sold our
renewal rights to that book of business to a third party.

Insurance Segment
The Company's insurance segment consists of property and casualty, marine and energy and financial and professional lines
insurance. A more detailed analysis of the business written within these classes is as follows:

Property and Casualty Insurance

The Company's property and casualty insurance line comprises commercial property, commercial liability, primary casualty,
excess casualty, environmental liability and railroad liability, written ona primary, excess, quota share, program and facultative
basis.

* Property insurance provides physical damage and business interruption coverage for losses arising from weather,
fire, theft and other causes, The commercial team's client base is predominantly U.K. institutional property owners,
smail and middle market corporates and public sector clients.

* Commercial liability provides employers' liability coverage and public liability coverage for insureds domiciled i in
the U.K. and Ireland. The team also covers directors' and officers' (“D&O”) and professional indemnity,
predominantly to smaii and medium corporates.

* Primary casualty consists primarily of lines written within the primary insurance sectors, focusing on insureds in
hospitality, real estate, construction and products liability.

+ Excess casualty line comprises large, sophisticated and risk-managed insureds worldwide and covers broad-based
tisks at lead/high excess attachment points, including general liability, commercial and residential construction
liability, life science, railroads, trucking, product and public liability and associated types of cover found in general
liability policies i in the giobal insurance market.

* Environmental liability primarily provides both primary and excess coverages for contractors' pollution liability
and pollution fegal liability across industry segments that have environmental regulatory drivers and contractual
requirements including: real estate and public entities, contractors and engineers, energy contractors and
environmental contractors and consultants.

¢ Railroad liability comprises excess liability coverages for freight, commuter and excursion railroads, while also
providing general liability covers to the railroad support industry (contracts, repair shops and products
manufacturers) as well as contingent liability for railcar fleet owners/managers and railroad protective liability, in
the United States.

¢ The majority of this U.K. regional D&O and professional indemnity coverage was bound through an agency
agreement with Aspen Risk Management Limited (““ARML”). In August 2019, we placed the ARML business into
runoff.
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Marine and Energy Insurance

The Company's marine and energy insurance fine comprised marine and energy liability, onshore energy physical damage,
offshore energy physical damage, marine hull, specie and aviation written on a primary, excess, quota share, program and
facultative basis.

The marine and energy liability business includes marine liability cover mainly related to the liabilities of ship-
owners and port operators, including reinsurance of Protection and Indemnity Clubs (“P&I Clubs”). It also
provides liability cover globally for companies in the oil and gas sector, both onshore and offshore and in the
power generation sector. This line of business was discontinued in February 2020.

Onshore energy physical damage provides onshore energy and construction sector classes of business with a
focus on property covers.

Offshore energy physical damage (also knowns as Upstream Energy) provides coverage for property damage
in addition to operators' extra expenses for companies operating in the oil and gas exploration and production
sector.

Marine Hult insures physical damage to ships (including war and associated perils) and related marine assets.
This line of business was discontinued in 2018 and placed into run-off.

The specie line of business focuses on the insurance of high value property items on an ail risks basis including
fine art, general and bank related specie, jewelers' block and cash in transit coverages.

Aviation writes physical damage insurance on airline hulls, aviation hull deductible covers and comprehensive
legal liability for airlines, smaller operators or airline equipment, airports and associated business and non-
critical component part manufacturers. This line of business was discontinued in 2018 and placed into run-off.

Financial and Professional Lines Insurance

The Company's financial and professional lines comprised financial and corporate risks, accident and health, professional
liability, management liability, credit and political risks, crisis management, surety tisks and technology liability (cyber
risks) written on a primary, excess, quota share, program and facuitative basis.

The Financial and Corporate risks account comprises financial institutions business written on a primary and excess
of loss basis and consists of professional liability, crime insurance and D&O covers for commercial and investment
banks, asset managers, insurance companies, stockbrokers and the like. This account includes a book of B&O
insurance for commercial insureds located outside of the U.S and a worldwide book of representations and warranties
and tax indemnity business.

The Company': 's professional liability business is written on both a primary and an excess of loss basis, focusing on
risks inthe U-K., Europe, Australia and Canada. The Company insures a wide range of professions including lawyers,
accountants, architects, engineers, doctors and medical technicians. This account also includes a portfolio of
technology liability and data protection insurance. The data protection insurance covers firms for first party costs
and third party liabilities associated with their breach of contractual or statutory data protection obligations.
Management Liability insures a diverse group of commercial and financial institutions primaril ily on an excess basis,
with coverages including DzO liability, fiduciary liability, employment practices liability, fidelity insurance and
blended liability programs including E&O liability with a focus on risks predominantly headquartered in the U.S.
or risks with material U.S. exposure.

The credit and political risks team writes business covering the credit and contract frustration risks on a variety of
trade and non-trade related transactions, as well as political risks {including multi-year war on land cover) and
surety risks. The Company provides credit and political risks cover worldwide.

“The accident and health team focuses on insurance and reinsurance products which heip protect individuals, groups
and companies from the consequences of accidental death or disability whether resulting from accident or sickness.
Cover written includes whole account treaty and facultative reinsurance protection for insurance companies. This
line of business was discontinued in March 2630.

The crisis management team writes insurance designed to protect individuals and corporations operating in high-
risk areas around the world, including covering the shipping industry's exposure to acts of piracy. It also writes
terrorism and political violence insurance, providing coverage for damage to property (largely fixed assets such as
buildings) resulting from acts of terrorism, strikes, riots, civil commotion or political violence, in addition to product
recall business.

The surety team writes commerciai surety risks, admiralty bonds and similar maritime undertakings including, but
not limited to, federal and public official bonds, license and permits and fiduciary and miscellaneous bonds, focused
on Fortune 1000 companies and large, privately owned companies in the United States.

‘Technology liability (also known as Cyber insurance) is written globally and provides coverage for technology,
media and telecommunications firms offering protection for damages and legal defence expenses associated with
financial loss claims from third parties and various forms of intellectual property breaches.
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Investments
The Company maintains all its investments in high quality fixed income securities and liquidity funds. These investments,
including liquidity funds, are currently managed by the following investment managers and custodians:

Alliance Capital Management L.P. BNP Paribas

Conning Asset Management Limited DWS Investment Management Americas Inc.
Blackrock Financial Management, Inc Goldman Sachs Asset Management L.P.
BNY Mellon Asset Servicing UBS AG

CIBC Mellon Manufacturers.and Traders Trust Company
Citibank Apollo Asset Management Europe PC LLP

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange risk and asset and liability matching as part
of our strategy of efficient portfolio management.

Balance Sheet
The balance sheet of the Company shows total assets of $6,502.2m (2018: $6,25 1.1m) and shareholder's equity of $841.9m
(2018: $845.0m). Of the total assets, $2,442.7m, 38% (2018: $2,437.5m, 39%) was represented by financial investments.

Enterprise Risk Management and Control Framework

The Board ensures that the Company operates an effective risk management and. control framework, which includes risk
management, compliance and internal control systems. The Company maintains appropriate policies, procedures and internal
controls to support the risk and contro! framework. ~

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

Risk management has been embedded in the management and culture of the Aspen Group since its formation in 2002.
The Company, as an operating entity within the Aspen Group, operates within the Group's established risk management
practices:

The key risks for the Company are:

* Coronavirus - the impacts of Coronavirus on our clients and the markets in which we operate, our investments (as
a result of the impacts on the wider economy) and our operations could be material. These impacts are evolving,
and inherently difficult to assess. We are in active correspondence with the PRA about the potential impact of
Coronavirus on the Company and this will remain the case over coming weeks and months.

* Underwriting performance. Although market conditions are improving losses in 2019 highlight that achievement
of: ‘appropriate underwriting performance remains a key risk to the company. Portfolio managementand risk selection
temain the key mitigant to this risk.

* Expense management. A number of initiatives to reduce expenses were implemented i in 2017 and 2018 and the
benefits of this work are starting to come through. However, it is worth emphasising the decision to exit jines (Aspen
Risk Management Limited, Marine and Energy Liability, Accident and Health, Marine Hull, Aviation and the Credit
and Surety reinsurance business) and the associated loss of premium income places greater pressure on the expense
ratio of the business. The decision to exit lines of business and the recent rating agency actions mean that expense
management remains a key focus for the Company, and the business will review whether the same resources in
support and operational areas are still required.

+ Impacts of organisational change. Following the takeover of the Aspen Group by Apolio there has been and continues
to be a significant level of organisational change. The level of organisational change means that the company
continues to face a heightened exposure to operational risk

Risk Management approach

AJUK maintains: a Risk Universe which defines the different types of risk that the Company faces and how they are monitored
and measured. This framework has been applied and refined throughout the intervening years. The Company operates an
integrated. enterprise wide risk management strategy designed to deliver shareholder value in a sustainable and. efficient
manner while providing a high level of policyholder protection. The Company's Risk Committee provides enhanced oversight
of the Company's risk management process. The execution of the Company's integrated risk management strategy is based
on:
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

the establishment and maintenance of an internal control and risk management system based on a three lines of
defence approach to the allocation of responsibilities between risk accepting units (first line), risk management
activity and oversight from other central control functions (second fine) and independent assurance (third line);
identifying material risks to the achievement of the Company's objectives including emerging risks;

the articulation at Group and Company ievel of our risk appetite and a consistent set of key risk limits for each
material component of risk;

measuring, monitoring, managing and reporting risk positions and trends;

the use, subject to an understanding of its limitations, of the Internal Model to test strategic and tactical business
decisions and to assess compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement and some risk limits; and

stress and scenario testing, including reverse stress testing, designed to help the Company better understand and
develop contingency plans for the likely effects of extreme events or combinations of events on capital adequacy
and liquidity.

On 5 December 2015, the PRA approved the Company's Internal Model, which AIUK uses within its integrated risk
management system, to calculate its Solvency I Regulatory Capital Requirement ("SCR").

Risk Appetite

In order to meet the expectations of its equity stakeholder, ATUK aims to maintain a level of profitability consistent with the
Group return targets set out in the Group Risk Appetite statement, taking into account the contributions of other subsidiaries.
AIUK also aims to generate sufficient distributable income to allow it to contribute its share of funding for the debt and
dividend obligations of the Aspen Group. The AIUK risk appetite and risk management process is aimed at ensuring that
these objectives are met. The Risk Appetite statement approved. by the Board articulates the Risk Appetite in terms of the
following components:

Risk Preferences

a high level description of the iypes of risks ATUK prefers to assume and avoid within the
context.of our objectives;

Capital Constraint a minimum level of risk adjusted capital; and
Volatility Constraint a basis for monitoring volatility of return.

In addition to the high level Risk Appetite statement the Company has established a set of Key Risk Limits covering exposures
to natural and man-made catastrophe events, market risks, credit risks and operational risks. These are monitored and reported
against to the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis. The risks are defined in the Risk Universe at 3 levels:

.

Main risk classification
Risk category.
Risk sub category

The main risks faced by the Company are defined as follows:

Core risks -. those.risks inherent in the running of the Company's business are-listed below:

)

2)

Insurance risk: The variation of actual technical results relating both to exposures from business written in the
period (underwriting risk) and exposures from business written in prior periods (reserving risk) from their expected,
values other than as a result of execution, operational or counterparty risks.

Market risk: The risk of variation in the fair value of our investment portfolio, cash and cash equivalents and
derivative contracts including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Non-core risks are all risks other than core risks. These are quantified as far as possible and, wherever practical, minimised
or avoided. These are listed below:

3)

4)
5)

6)

7)

Credit risk: The risk of diminution in the value of insurance and reinsurance receivables as a result of counter-party
defauit.

Liquidity Risk: The risk that the Company is unable to make payments or provide collateral when required.
Operational Risk: The risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, personnel or systems, or
from external events.

Strategic Risk: The risk of adverse impact on shareholder value or income and capital of adverse business decisions,
poor execution or failure to respond to market changes.

Emerging Risk: The risk that events not previously identified emerge and impact the profitability and / or balance
sheet of the Company.

10
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

8) Regulatory Risk: The risk of non-compliance with regulatory requirements including ensuring ASUK understand
and comply with changes to those requirements is managed as an operational risk. There is a residual risk that
__ changes in regulation impact AIUK's ability to operate profitably i in some jurisdictions or some lines of business.
9) Taxation Risk: The risk that we do not understand, pian for and manage ATUK's tax obligations is addressed as an
operational risk. There is a residual risk that changes in taxation impact AIUK's ability to operate profitably in some
jurisdictions or some lines of business.
Operational risk is the most complex of the non-core risk classifications because it includes multiple risk scenarios arising
from multiple processes and circumstances. Because of this AIUK records identified operational risks and their related risk
assessments, owners and identified controls in a separate ‘Operational Risk Register' of the Company. The approach for
the Company operational risk register is monitored via a quarterly review process. We consider conduct risk as part of
operational risk and have specific processes to address it including a conduct risk forum and a specific quarterly conduct
risk report to the AIUK Risk Committee.

U.K.'s Decision to leave the EU
The United Kingdom's decision to withdraw from the E.U. could adversely impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

The Company faces new regulatory costs and challenges as a result of the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European
Union (commonly known as “Brexit”). The U.K. left the E.U. as of January 31, 2020. A transitional arrangement, under
which E.U. law will broadly remain in force in the U.K. is in place until December 31, 2020. The Company has been planning
for Brexit for some time and is currently in discussions with E.U. regulators to determine the most appropriate actions to
take to safeguard policyholder rights after December 31, 2020.

The uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of Brexit, the terms and conditions of such exit, the legal and
regulatory framework that will apply to the U.K. and its relationship with the remaining members of the E.U. (including in
relation to trade and services) upon expiration of the transitional arrangement has caused, and is likely to cause, increased
economic volatility .and market uncertainty globally, in particular volatility of currency exchange rates, interest rates and
credit spreads. As well as short-term issues, the long-term effect of Brexit on the value of AFUK's investment portfolio at
this time is uncertain, and such volatility and uncertainty will likely continue as negotiations progress to determine the future
terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the B.U.

Brexit could lead to potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace
or replicate. ATUK may have to review its underwriting platforms and incur additional regulatory costs as a result. ATUK
will tose its EEA financial services passport which provides it with the license to operate across borders within the single
EEA market without obtaining local regulatory approval where insurers and cedants are located. In addition, depending on
the terms agreed with the E.U. following the conclusion of the transitional arrangement, the U.K.'s regulatory regime in
terms of Solvency II regulation and governance could also diverge and no longer be equivalent.

Climate change

Global climate change may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and as a result
the Company is focused on adequately assessing and pricing (wherever possible) for any increased frequency and severity
of catastrophes resulting from these environmental factors.

There is widespread consensus in the scientific community that there is a long-term upward trend i in global air and sea
temperatures which is likely to increase the severity and frequency of severe weather events.over the coming decades. Rising
sea levels are also expected to add to the risks associated with coastal flooding in many geographical areas. Large scale
climate change could also increase both the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and our total claims paid and all
other costs associated with property damage and business interruption due to storms, floods and other weather-related events.

In addition, global climate change could impair our ability to predict the costs associated with future weather events and
could also give rise to new environmental liability claims in the energy, manufacturing and other industries we serve.

Given the scientific uncertainty of predicting the effect of climate cycles and climate change on the frequency and severity
of catastrophes and the lack of adequate predictive tools, we may not be able to adequately model the associated exposures
and potential losses in connection with such catastrophes which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or operating results.

Our investment portfolio and our credit and political risk underwriting exposures may be materially adversely affected
by global climate change regulation.

Woild téadeis fet at the 2015 United Nations Climaté Change Coiferénce ih Deceinber 201°5 in Paris ad agreed to

at
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

limit global greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere to a level which would not increase the average global
temperature by more than 2°Celsius, with an aspiration of limiting such increase to 1.5° Celsius (the “Paris Agreement”).
In order for governments to achieve their existing and future international commitments to limit the concentration of
greenhouse gases under the Paris Agreement, there is widespread consensus in the scientific community that a significant
percentage of existing proven fossil fuel reserves may not be consumed. In addition, divestment campaigns, which call
on asset owners to divest from direct ownership of commingled funds that include fossil fuel equities and bonds, likewise
signals a change in society's attitude towards the social and environmental extemalities of doing business.

As a result of the above, energy companies and other companies engaged in the production or storage of fossil fuels
may experience unexpected or premature devaluations or write-ofts of their fossil fuel reserves. As at December 31,
2019, we had $42.0 million, or 1.6% of our Managed Portfolio, invested in the energy sector. Government policies to
slow global climate change by, for example, setting limits on carbon emissions may also have an adverse impact on
other sectors, such as utilities, transportation and manufacturing. A material change in the asset value of fossil fuels or
the securities of energy companies and companies in these other sectors may therefore materially adversely affect our
investment portfolio and our results of operations and financial condition.

We provide credit and politicai risk insurance to banks and other institutions providing lending to government and private
organisations. In some cases the lending relates to private organisations involved in the energy sector or governments
or government agencies which are dependent on fossil fuels for their revenue. A material change in the asset value of
fossil fuels may therefore materially adversely affect our exposures to credit and political risk.

Coronavirus Outbreak

We continue to closely monitor developments related to the outbreak of EOVID-19, also nown as coronavirus, to assess
any potential impact on our business. Like many property and casualty (re)insurers, we have possible exposure to the
contingency market and cancellation losses stemming from the COVID-19 outbreak and could also face COVID-19 related
claims from creditand surety lines and potential exposure from business interruption. Whether the virus could trigger coverage
is dependent on specific policy language, terms and exclusions. There is a risk, however, that legislative, regulatory, judicial
or social influences may extend coverage beyond our intended contractual obligations or result in an increase in the frequency
or severity of claims beyond expected ievels. The volatility in the financial markets resulting from the outbreak may also
impact our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio comprises primarily government and other fixed income securities
and we are not significantly exposed to equity markets. However, our corporate bond portfolio could be subject to valuation
risk as a result of movements in corporate spreads and default risk in the event of extended disruption to trade. In addition,
existing and potential future travel bans, preventative or government mandated closures of our offices or the offices of our
outsource providers may affect our ability to conduct our business. A prolonged period of commercial disruption, reduced
economic activity and other consequences of the outbreak could have a material impact on our resuits of operations, financial
condition or liquidity. It is not practicable to quantify the ultimate financial effect of the outbreak on the Company at this

stage.

‘The Board has undertaken an assessment to determine the impact of COVID-19 on the company and its future viability.
This assessment has included a review of potential insurance and investment exposures under moderate and severe scenarios
and regular monitoring of current and projected solvency levels. The scenarios encompass different assumed durations of
the effects of the outbreak, credit spreads widening by upto 400-600 basis points, yields on the investment portfolio dropping
to nil for these different durations and an estimate of (re)insurance losses by reviewing various business lines where exposures
are likely (direct and indirectly) and quantifying the estimated loss exposures. This analysis was supplemented by a reverse
stress test to determine the level of, and likelihood of, capital erosion that would result in an adverse impact on the Company's
ability to satisfy regulatory capital thresholds.

Additional sensitivities have been provided on page 43 to capture the impact of widening credit spreads and interest rate
movements on our fixed income portfolio at 31 March 2020 to support our ongoing assessment.

We continue to monitor our solvency and capital position closely on a frequent basis post year end. Based on our analysis
and our latest post year end estimate of the solvency position the Company's capital resources remain comfortably in excess
of the relevant regulatory capital thresholds and | projected to do so under severe scenarios; the reverse stress test indicates
that the ievel at which an adverse impact would arise on the Company's ability to satisfy regulatory capital thresholds is
sufficiently remote. Accordingly the Directors have concluded that although the impact from COVID-19 is likely to be
material it does not adversely affect the company's ability to continue as a going concern or reduce its capital and solvency
levels to below regulatory requirements. Our priority remains to support our staff and honour our client's needs.

12
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: {184193

Agency Ratings

Ratings with respect to claims paying ability and financial strength have become increasingly important factors in establishing
the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies and will also impact the cost and availability of capital to
an insurance company. Ratings by AM. Best and Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (“S&P*) represent an important
consideration in maintaining customer confidence in us and in our ability to market insurance products. Rating organisations
regularly analyze the financial performance and condition of insurers.

On March 26, 2020, S&P downgraded the financial strength and issuer credit ratings of the Company to “A-” (Strong) from
“A” (Strong). The outlook assigned to this rating is stable. On April 1, 2020, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating
of “A” (Excellent) for ATUK but revised its outlook to negative from stable.

S&B is a widely recognised insurance company rating agency and some policyholders are required to obtain insurance
coverage from insurance companies that have an “A-” (Strong) rating or higher from S&P. Because S&P continually monitors
companies with regard to their ratings, our ratings could change at any time. The Company does not believe that these rating
actions will in any way compromise our ability to service the needs of our customers and trading partners or our obligations
to them. However, the downgrade may impair our ability to sell insurance policies and could materially and adversely affect
our competitive position in the insurance industry, future financial condition and operating results.

Section 172 statement

The Board factored the needs and concems of the Company's stakeholders into its decisions in accordance with section 172
of the Companies Act 2006. The importance of the Company' 's stakeholders are outlined in more specific detail within the
Directors' report, however examples of key decisions taken by the Board during 3019 include:

° Key strategic changes - Following the Apollo Acquisition, there have been a number of changes to executives and
senior management, including the appointment of several new ‘Non-Executive Directors. Acompiete strategic review
ofthe Company's business and culture was also undertaken, in order to improve underwriting performance, financial
strength and the culture for employees across the Aspen Group. As a result, various changes have been implemented,

including:

° Underwriting - Ongoing refinement of the Company's underwriting portfolio, which resulted in the
Company exiting the Credit & Surety Line of Business in 2019.

. Structural Changes - Closure of the Company's Irish and Dubai branches. However, the Company

continues to service some of the business from those branches in London and its Zurich Branch. The
Aspen Group aiso closed its Lioyd's China Platform as a result of which, some of this business wili now
be serviced by the Company's Singapore Branch.

* Investment - Implementation of a new investment strategy.

. Cuitural - As outlined in detail under the Climate Change, Charitable and Political Donations and
Stakeholder Engagement sections of this report, the Company in conjunction with the wider Aspen Group
is seeking to make changes that will benefit its employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the
community as a whole.

¢  On14 May 2019, ATUK issued notice to terminate the delegated underwriting authority to ARML. In August 2019,
we placed. the ARML business into runoff. AIUK has assumed ARML's underwriting administration and claims
handling obligations for the run-off business.

+ Brexit “The Company has considered various strategic-options in order to serve business in the EEA post the UK
leaving the EU, and expiry of the transition period. The Company has decided not to proceed with its application
for an Irish Branch and is focused instead on discussions with various EU regulators. The impact of Brexit on the
Company and how the Company has managed this, is discussed more comprehensively in the section of the report:
The UK's Decision to leave the EU.

¢ Head Office refurbishment - The Company renewed its Lease of 30 Fenchurch Street and has commenced
refurbishment of the premises.

The Company is firmiy committed to high standards of corporate governance and maintaining a sound framework for the
control and management of the business. The Board recognises that effective govemance is key to the implementation of'
strategy for our shareholder and wider stakeholders. As a major UK generat insurer, the Company is familiar and comfortable
with the corporate governance practices expected of it and the legislation applicable to Public Interest Entities. The Company
also complies fully with the corporate governance requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Miscellaneous

13
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Reporting (Regulations) 2018 and Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (and regulations made thereunder) applicable
to it as a result of its (re)insurance business.

By order of the Board

C7 Kaw
Grahame Dawe

Director
15 May 2020

14
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

DIRECTORS' REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report, together with the audited financial statements for the year

ended 31 December 2019.

Principal Activity

The principal activity of the Company continues to be the transacting of general insurance and reinsurance business in the
UK, US and through its branches in Switzerland, Canada, Singapore and Australia. In 2019, the Company officially
deregistered and closed its branch in Paris on 31 July 2019. A strategic decision was also made to stop writing new business
through its branch in Dublin, which was closed midway through 2019.

Resuits and Dividends

The results for the year are set out in the accompanying Income Statement. The profit before tax for the year was $8.6m
(2018: loss $39.2m). The Directors regard the current state of affairs of the Company and its future prospects as satisfactory.
No dividends (2018: Nil) were paid.during the year to the Company's only shareholder AEHL.

Financial Instruments
Details of financial instruments are provided in the Strategic Report.

Directors and Directors' Interests
The Directors of the Company at the date of this report are set out on page 3. Changes in directors during 2019 and up to
the date of this report are as follows:

Date of appointment Date of resignation
Hannah Purves 22 October 2019
Grahame Dawe 4 December 2019
Natalie Waller :30 January 2020
Theresa Froehlich 25 February 2020
Jonathan Price 28 February 2019
Emil Issavi 30 May 2019
Dr. Karl Mayr 30 June: 2019:
Julian Cusack 11 September 2019
Mark Dean : 13 May 2020

According to the Register of Directors' interests, no Director had a disclosable interest in the shares of the Company,
and no Director had been granted or had exercised any right to subscribe for such shares during the period under review.

Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance
The Company has maintained insurance to cover Directors' and officers' liability as defined by section 236 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Employees

The Company has no employees of its own in the U.K.. The majority of the Company's UK personnel are employed by
Aspen Insurance UK Services Limited (“ATUKS”). ATUKS is a fellow subsidiary of AIHL. However, the Company' S
initiatives are serviced by AIUKS employees by way of an intra Group Service Agreement. There are a smaii number of
employees employed by the Zurich Branch of ATUK. ATUKS encourages its employees to develop their full potential by
providing opportunities for training and professional development. Such opportunities, as well as career development and
promotion, are equally available to disabled employees, whether newly recruited or existing employees who become disabled
whilst in AIUKS's employment.

AIUKS's equal opportunities policy aims to ensure that no potential or existing employee receives less favourable treatment
because of his / her sex, actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender (including gender reassignment), marital or family
state, age, ethnic origin, disability, race, colour, nationality, national origin, creed, political affirmation, part-time status, or
any other condition, unless it can be shown to be legally justifiable.

Going Concern

The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation and meet its
liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least 12 months from the date that the financial statements are approved. In
arriving at this conclusion, as explained in further detail on page 12, the Directors have undertaken an assessment to determine

15
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

the impact of COVID-19 on the company and its future viability, taking into account the likely impact on the Company's
insured loss exposures, investments and solvency capital position under moderate and severe scenarios, and the associated
sensitivities where relevant. This is supplemented as appropriate, by reverse stress testing to determine the extent to which
capital erosion would have to occur to result in an adverse impact on the Company's ability to meet certain regulatory capital
requirements. The analysis performed demonstrates that the Company remains solvent and retains sufficient headroom above
regulatory capital requirements under moderate and severe scenarios; the reverse stress test indicates | that the likelihood of
there being capital erosion to such an extent as to breach the company's regulatory capital requirements is sufficiently remote.

Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

Charitable and Politicai Donations .

The Company made charitable donations during the year of $0.3 million (2018: $0.4 million). The donations were to
organisations engaged in cancer research, children with disability, providing food to the underprivileged, ex-service men
and women with disabilities and to a community project in Uganda. There were no political donations made during the year.

Stakeholder engagement _

There is a growing recognition within the insurance industry of the value of high-quality stakeholder relationships. The
Company embraces this trend recognising that active stakeholder input helps to drive the legitimacy and sustainability of its
business strategy. However, communication and engagement with Stakeholders has been particularly i ‘important and prevalent
for the Company following the acquisition of the Company's holding company (Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited and its
subsidiaries (“ the Aspen Group”), by certain investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management (“ the Apollo
Acquisition”),

Engagement with stakeholders subsequently informs decision making throughout the organisation. At a strategic level,
methods of engagement can vary depending on the issue and the business unit involved. However, senior leaders regularly
and actively participate in regulatory, industry and claims forums, listening to the perspectives of brokers, employees,
policyholders and suppliers. Specific examples of the key stakeholder engagement undertaken at different levels within the
Company to inform decision-making and enhance Board understanding are set out below.

(Re)Insurance Customers/Brokers
Employees
Aspeu provides insurance and Shareholders

reinsurance services to many

The Aspen Group employs

-domestic and international
organisations

(Re)insurance customers and brokers
expect clear, transparent information and 2
prompt and effective claims handling
service they can rely on. Regular
engagement with brokers provides a better
understanding of customer needs, as well as
how continuous improvements in policy
coverage and claims handling can be
delivéred. Moré broadly, thé Company
takes account ofthe current and future needs
of (re)insurance customers, and this is one
of the key issues in its stakeholder
engagement generally.

| Material issues

approximately 460 people in the
UK.

The Company has no employees of its own.
All of the Company's staff are employed by

Aspen Insurance UK Services Limited
“ATUKS”).

AIUKS is a fellow subsidiary ¢ of AIHL.
However, the Company's initiatives were
serviced by ATUKS employees by way ofan
Intra Group Sérvice Agreement. There aré a
small number of employees employed by
the Zurich Branch of AIUK.

ATUKS depends on the shared talent, skills
and values of its employees. The Company
has a framework for ongoing two-way
feedback and engaging employees at all
levels about the key issues that affect them.
The Company aims to be a supportive and
inclusive employer for which people want
to work. The Company also monitors the
perspectives on the workplace and on
employment issues of people working
beyond its existing workforce.

Material issues

Aspen is committed to delivering
long-term value for its shareholders

Following the Acquisition, the Aspen
Group is privately owned by certain
investment funds managed by affiliates of
Apollo Global Management.

Material issues

16
<Page End><Page Start>* Brexit - Brexit - The Company has
frequently engaged with brokers at an
executive level and via individual lines of
business in relation to the structural and
business changes affecting the Company's
EU business as a result of Brexit. This
communication is ongoing and consists of |
both face-to-face meetings, email and
telephone correspondence.

«ApolloAcquisition- Following the Apollo
Acquisition the Aspen has made various
structural changes that have impacted upon
the Company (discussed further below).
Executive management have directly
engaged with customers to obtain feedback
on changes, as well as provide frequent and
thorough update of any changes.

* The Aspen Group recently engaged a
global PR agency to assist with the
efficiency and consistency of,
communication across all regions.

Regulatory bodies

Regulators play a central role in shaping the
insurance sector. Engagement is especially
important in working to modemise
compliance, regulatory, and legal risk
management programs to meet applicable
laws, regulations, and oversight and
monitoring expectations. Aspen works
constructively with UK regulators to protect
the jong-term interests of (re)insurance
customers and keep pace with industry
staridards as 4 wiiole.

Examples

+ Senior Management (in conjunction with
the Company's Compliance department)
have maintained consistent and ongoing
communication with various regulators
such as the PRA and FCA to explain the
changes the organisation is going through.
Examples include the change in control
arising from the Apollo Acquisition, the
Company's ongoing preparations for

Brexit, and departures from existing lines of
business.

* In 2019, a Group supervisory college was
conducted in which regulators from the
various jurisdictions met to discuss the
chariges undertaken within Aspen Group.

Employee engagement

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

* Direct Feedback & Communication
between executive management and
employees - For example: Organisational
change initiatives, including regular pulse
surveys on various topics which allow
employees “to have their say” directly and
anonymously. Corporate Communications
from éxecuttve managethent are circulated
to provide updates on all key changes within
the Aspen Group; the Aspen Group CEO has
a separate ematl account for employees to
“email the CEO” with any suggestions,
queries or complaints; Town Hall meetings
in which all employees in the Aspen Group
are able to attend.

° Corporate Social Responsibility &
Diversity and Inclusion - The Aspen Group
has a number of permanent staff committed
to continually implementing new initiatives
to support global and local charities, drive
climate change initiatives as well as support
internal diversity and inclusion.

Suppliers and contractors

The Company relies on its supply chain to
deliver projects and ensure it operates
successfully. Aspen aims to build strong
relationships with suppliers and contractors
so it can maximise cost efficiencies and
alignment with its brand, technology and
strategies.

Examples

+ Aspen's Procurement function continues
to focus on supplier engagement and liaison
with suppliers

* Where there may be any impact on
suppliers as a result of organisational
change, they have been informed of relevant
changes at an early stage to discuss the
impact such changes may have onthe supply
or their services.

+ Aspen monitors the quality and timeliness
of services provided by third party providers
to ensure compliance with regulatory and
legislative requirements (such as the
Modem Slavery Act).

Registered Number: 1184193

As a result of the Acquisition, Aspen has
become a privately owned organisation
such that there is increased engagement
with shareholders. Shareholders” interests
are represented on the Board of the Aspen
Group holding company, AIHL. The Group
CEO and Chairman is responsible for
driving shareholders' objectives and
ensuring that strategy throughout the Group
is consistent with shareholders' objectives.

¢ The Company's Invéstment plans are also
under consideration to ensure appropriate
tetums for shareholders.

Local Communities

Aspen is committed to supporting the
communities in which it operates, including
jocal businesses, charities and the wider
public. Aspen engages with groups that
focus on social and educational related
issues on behalf of society. Two-way
relationships with our charity partners, also
provide opportunities for different parts of
the business to unite around a common
cause.

Examples

* Corporate Social Responsibility &
Diversity and Inclusion - The Company
has a number of permanent staff committed
‘to continually implementing new initiatives
to support global and local charities, as well
as support internal diversity and inclusion.

The Company has no employees of its own in the U.K.. As above, the majority of the Company's UK personnel are employed
by Aspen Insurance UK Services Limited (“AIUKS”). AIUKS is a fellow subsidiary of AIHL. However, the Company's
initiatives are serviced by AIUKS employees by way of an Intra Group Service Agreement. There are a small number of
employees employed by the Zurich Branch of AIUK.

The success of the Company depends on the collective talent, skills and values of its employees. Accordingly, the Company
is committed to employee engagement at all levels. Examples of employee engagement initiatives during 2019 include:

17
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

| Providing employees systematically with Executive Management circulate “Corporate Communication” emails whenever
information on matters that concern there is a key change to the business, personnel or the insurance market. The
them emails are comprehensive and frequent,

Executive Management, as well as the relevant project managers present Town
Hali meetings to all of the Aspen Group. Each Town Halt involves an interactive
Q&A component and employees are encouraged to raise questions.

Consulting employees on a regular basis The Aspen Group CEO also has a designated email account for employees to
so that their views can be taken into “email the CEO” with any queries or business recommendations. The inbox is
account in making decisions which are monitored regularly and emails are considered by the CEO personally.
likely to affect their interest
AS part Of the ongoing cultural transformation, a ‘Pulse Survey' was set lip 0
that all employees could provide feedback to help shape Aspen's immediate
priorities and to identify matters of concem to employees. It was reported that
certain aspects of Aspen's IT systems could be improved, as a result of which a
number of system upgrade upgrades are being implemented.

Encouraging the involvement of AIUKS offers annual bonuses, long term incentive awards (LTIP) (available to
employees inthe company's performance selected employees), and an Executive Scheme to encourage performance.

Annual bonuses and LTIP awards are discretionary and contingent upon both
company and employee performance (measured against the performance
standards expected within each employee's job description):
Achieving common awareness of the| Aspen delivers quarterly ail staff updates and announcements and encourage feedback on
financial and economic factors affecting | the key financial and economic conditions affecting the Aspen group.
| Aspen's performance
The Corporate Communications and Town Hall meetings (as referred to above) throughout
2019 were the key medium to communicate such updates; however, each department's
Fine Manager is responsible for discussing performance issues with the employees within
eir team.

Future Deveiopments

The Directors aim to continue our strategic plan to improve profitability through re-underwriting our portfolios in both
insurance and reinsurance, exiting underperforming business, strengthening our reserve position, and reducing our operating
cost base. Although the (re)insurance market remains competitive and there remains an abundance of available capital, market
conditions and rates are strengthening, which is expected to continue through 2020. As the rate environment improves, we
continue to seek opportunities to deploy capital most efficiently to achieve attractive risk-: adjusted returns. We have taken
stepsto streamline our operations and to moreclosely align our production offices with our customer base and our! underwriting
teams are positioned to identify and capitalise on acceptable business to underwrite without sacrificing underwriting
discipline. We expect expenses to continue the downward trend seen since 2017, following the success of projects addressing
operating efficiencies through outsourcing, streamlining and staffing reductions.

Events Since the Reporting Date

In February 2020, the Company ceased underwriting Marine & Energy Liability business. This was due to significant
deterioration on prior years and loss activity in the current year in a market where pricing is not correcting sufficiently enough.
This marketplace has not generated sustainable profit ‘margins, and we are ‘shifting our focus to areas where we believe there
is better opportunity to.achieve our long-term profitability targets. In addition, the Company exited the Accident & Health
line in March 2020 due to adverse claims experience and uncertain sustainable profitability of this type of business with
high acquisition and operating costs.

On March 2, 2626, AIHL entered into an adverse development reinsurance agreement with Cavello Bay Reinsurance Limited
(“Cavello”), a Bermuda insurance company and wholly owned subsidiary of Enstar Group Limited. Under this agreement,
AIHL will cede to Cavello, losses incurred on or prior to December 31, 2019 on a diversified mix of property, liability and
‘specialty lines across the U.S., U.K and Europe, in excess of $3.8 billion, up to an aggregate limit of $4.6 biition (coverage
of $0.8 billion). The reinsurance agreement also provides for $0.3 billion of cover in excess of $4.8 billion. The consideration
for this agreement is $0.8 billion plus interest at 3.75% per annum, compounding daily, from the effective date January i,

2026 to the closing date. The premium payabie under this contract, will be allocated across the various operating subsidiaries
within the Aspen Group based on risk adjusted reserve run off projections. Completion of the transaction is subject to Board
approvals and satisfaction of various other closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2020.

On 26 March 2026, Standard & Poor's announced that they had downgraded their ratings on AIUK to A- outlook stable from
A outlook negative. The Company has taken clear steps to improve performance, strengthen the-balance sheet and capital
position, and insulate itself from future losses on older accident years through the adverse development reinsurance cover

18
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

referred to above. S&P have acknowledged these changes and simultaneously upgraded the Aspen Group's financial risk
profile from ‘satisfactory' to ‘strong' and its capital and earnings from ‘very strong' to ‘excellent'. On April 1, 2020, AM.
Best affirmed the financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) for AIUK but revised its outlook to negative from stable. The
Company does. not believe that these rating actions will in any way compromise our ability to service the needs of our
customers and trading partners or our obligations to them.

Statement of Disclosure of Information to the Company's Auditor

The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware; and each director has taken all the steps
that he/she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

Auditor
Pursuant to Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the auditor will be deemed to be reappointed and KPMG LLP will
therefore continue in office.

By Order of the Board

7 Lhe

Grahame Dawe
Director

May 15, 2020

30 Fenchurch Street

London, U.K.
EC3M 3BD

19
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT,
THE DIRECTORS' REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report; the Directors' Report and the financial, statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they have elected
to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice), including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or toss of the company for that period. In preparing
these financial statements, the directors are required to:.

+ _ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

* make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* _ state whether-applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements;

* assess the company's ability to continue asa going concer, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern;
and

* use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic aitemative but to do so.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company's

transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to

ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2606. They are responsible for such internal controi:as

they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether

due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the

assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities:

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.

20
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASPEN INSURANCE UK LIMITED
t Our opinion is unmodified

We have audited the financial statements of Aspen Insurance UK Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 31 December
2019 which comprise the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Balance
Sheet, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.

In.our opinion the financial statements:

© give a true and fair view of the state of Company's affairs as at 31 December 2019 and of its profit for the year then
ended; + . . : . vos: mee em, — -e

* have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland; and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities are described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis
for our opinion. Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.

‘We were appointed as auditor by the Directors in'2002. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 18 financial
years ended 2019. We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Company in
accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities. No non-
audit services prohibited by that Standard were provided.

2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement

‘Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
‘statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified
by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and
directing the efforts of the engagement team. We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit
significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as
required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures. These matters were addressed, and our results are
based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and:solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a
whole, and in forming our-opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.

We continue to perform procedures over the provision for uneamed premiums and insurance receivables in respect of
proportional treaty premiums. However, in respect of these areas based on the results of our test work in 2018 and the lack
of any significant estimation uncertainty we have not assessed these as one of the most significant risks in our current year
audit and, therefore, they have not been separately identified in our report this year.

21
<Page End><Page Start>paration) and
206SONE

Unprecedented levels of uncertainty

The financial statements explain how the
Directors have formed their judgement that it is
appropriate to adopt the going concem basis of
preparation for the Company.

The judgement is based on an evaluation of the
inherent risks to the Company's business model
and how those risks might affect the Company's
financial resources or ability to continue
operations over a period of at least a year from
the date of approval of the financial statements.

The impact of COVID-19 is subject to
unprecedented levels of uncertainty of
outcomes, with the full range of possible effects
unknown given the rapidly evolving nature of|
the situation on financial and operational
performance.

The risks that we considered most tikely to
adversely affect the Company's available
financial resources over this period were:

~ Adverse loss experience;

- A deterioration in the valuation of
investments; and

+The length of time that the impact of

COVID-19 will cause disruption to

economic conditions and result in the

development of insured losses

There are also Jess predictable but realistic
second order impacts, such as the failure of
counterparties who have transactions with the
Company (such as banks and reinsurers) to meet
commitments that could give rise to a negative
impact on the Company's financial position and
the impact of COVID-19 on the economic
environment and the resulting impact on the
Company's capital resources.

The risk for our audit was whether or not those
tisks were such that they amounted to a material
uncertainty that cast significant doubt about the
ability to continue as a going concem. Had they
been such, then that fact would have been
required to have been disclosed.

Disclosure quality

Clear and full disclosure of the assessment
undertaken by the Directors and the rationale
for the use of the going concern assumption,
represents a key financial statement disclosure
requirement.

There is a risk that insufficient details are
disclosed to allow a full understanding of the
assessment undertaken by the Directors.

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts.

due to COVID-19 on our audit
5-16 (Go!

nmi even

OnCErA-StaeEMeNL)- pay

Our procedures included:
Our COVID-19 understanding

We considered the Directors' assessment of the risks and
impact of COVID-19 and comparéd these to our own
understanding of the risks.

Sensitivity analysis

We evaluated the Company's financial forecasts and
considered sensitivities over the level of available financial
Tesources taking account of reasonably possible (but not
unrealistic) adverse effects of COVID-19 that could arise over
the period, individually and collectively.

We consideréd the Directors' stress tésting of critical factors
such as the deterioration in the valuation of the Company's
investments in corporate bonds, adverse loss experience on
the insured portfolio, and the duration of the outbreak. We
also assessed management's plans and progress to ensure the
continued operation of the business in the face of the
disruption caused by COVID-19. Further, we evaluated the
degree to which reasonably foreseeable downside scenarios
that would impact the Company's business would be covered
by the stress tests that the directors had used in its COVID-19
assessment taking into consideration reverse stress tests
performed by the Directors to determine the level of capital
erosion that could impact the Company's ability to meet its
regulatory capita] requirements.

Evaluating Directors' actions

Through enquiry we evaluated the extent to which actions
taken by Directors would improve the position as risks
materialise.

Assessing transparency

We critically assessed the completeness and accuracy of the
matters covered in the going concern disclosure by agreeing
to supporting evidence and performing inquiries of the
Directors, which included challenging ¢ transparency of|
assumptions in the severe but plausible downside scenarios
performed in making this assessment.

Our results

We found the going concern disclosure without any
material uacertainty to be proportionate (2018:
proportionate).

However, no audit should be expected to predict the
unknowable factors or all possible future implications for
a company and this is particularly the case in relation to
COVID-19,

22

<Page End><Page Start>Q019

ms Outstandis

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

shn, 2018

ounting policy) and pa

determination
methodology and
calculations are complex.

Certain lines of business have greater inherent
uncertainty, for example those where claims
emerge more slowly over time, or where there
is greater variability in claim settlement
amounts. This includes Marine Energy and
Construction Liability, Credit & Surety and
Casualty Classes.

Amargin is added to the actuarial best estimate
to make allowance for specific uncertainties
associated with the estimation of insurance
liabilities. The appropriate level of margin to
recognise is a subjective judgement based on
the level of uncertainty and potential for
volatility in the claims experience.

Case reserves for reported claims, whilst less
subjective, carry the risk of management bias
through understatement of the level of reserves
held for open claims. Given the size of these
reserves, and the consequent impact on the
development factors used in the projection of
the IBNR, we consider this to form part of the
key audit matter.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our
risk assessment, we determined that IBNR has
a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater
than our materiality for the financial statements
as a whole, and possibly many times that
amount. The financial statements (note 2)
disclose the sensitivity estimated by the
Company.

Our procedures include
Our actuarial expertise

We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in
performing our procedures in this area.

Control design and operation

We tested the controls in respect of the reserving process,
including controls over the setting and approval of case
reserves for reported claims and the scrutiny applied by the
Reserving Committee in respect of the reserves set for the not
reported claims.

We assessed the qualifications and experience of those
responsible and examined the output of the reviews to
evaluate the effectiveness of the controls operating within the
process.

Substantive testing

Historical comparison

We assessed the assumptions adopted in respect of ultimate
toss ratios, frequency and severity of claims by comparing to
relevant historical company experience data.

Sector experience and benchmarking assumptions

We evaluated the appropriateness of assumptions, reserving
methodologies and estimates of losses including those of total
losses on natural catastrophes by comparing to expectations
derived from our understanding of current trends in loss
development and industry benchmarking in order to identify
specific trends and outliers.

independent re-performance in respect of the actuarial
best estimaie

We used our own modelling tools to re-project ultimate losses
for certain individual classes of business and compared this
to the Company's estimates. The determination of which
classes to re-project was based on risk assessment and
consideration of the evidence available from other alternative
data analysis procedures.

Methodology assessment in respect of margin

We evaluated the appropriateness of the Company's
methodology in respect of the margin applied to the actuarial
best estimate by comparing to our understanding of the
development in uncertainties specific to the exposures in the
Company's portfolio. We assessed reserving strength, in

articular the level of margin held, with reference to our
independently determined reasonable range and our
professional judgement.

Test of detail

For a sample of individual reported claims, we agreed the
teserve booked to third party evidence such as loss
notification information from cedants and Joss adjuster
reports.

Our resuit

We found the valuation of the claims outstanding liability
to be acceptable (2018: acceptable).

23
<Page End><Page Start>Written P

Risk vs 201

The appropriateness of certain inward
reinsurance premiums written, speciftcally
relating to proportional contracts, is an area of
audit risk. This is primarily due to notification
lags from cedants and brokers for such business,
resulting in uncertainty in respect of the exact
quantum of the ultimate premium resulting in
the potential for adjustments to historic written
premiums which have not yet been fully realised
in cash; this creates opportunities for
overstating or understating the premium
amount (or delaying downward adjustments) as
the actual premium is likely to take some time
to develop.

Reinsurance contracts are often complex.

In recent years the mix of the Company's
outwards reinsurance program has changed
with the inclusion of significant, multi-line
quota share agreements and excess of loss
contracts in the portfolio resulting in greater
complexity being associated with this area.

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

nites = dn: ard Reinsurance Q0

Our procedures included:
Control design and operation

We tested, assisted by our own IT specialists, the design and
opération of the Company's controls in réspect of data entry,
monitoring of premium bookings and approval of changes
Operating within the process for booking and adjusting the
amounts of inwards reinsurance premiums relating to
proportional contracts.

Substantive testing

Historical comparison

We critically assessed the Company's approach in respect of |
this area by checking the historical accuracy of a sample of
premium bookings through comparison of prior year
bookings to trends in confirmed premiums as evidence
through confirmed treaty statements or other relevant
corroborative evidence.

Tests of details

- We agreed the premiums booked for a sample of policies
to counterparty notifications of premium and other
external information and corroborated any material
adjustments to previously held bookings.

+ We also compared the premium booked for a sample of
individual counterparties to trends in confirmed premium
to ascertain the ongoing appropriateness of historic
bookings.

Our result

We found the amounts recognised in respect of elements
of the Company's gross written premiums - inward
reinsurance totalling $ 0.2 bn, relating to inwards
reinsurance premiums on proportional contracts to be
acceptable (2018: acceptable).

Our procedures included:
Substantive testing

Tests of details

- We inspected the contractual terms of a sample of excess
of loss reinsurance agreements to check these have been
accurately applied in deriving the relevant accounting
entries,

~ We agreed the attributes of the contracts relevant to the
determination of the outward reinsurance premium for a
sample of quota-share reinsurance agreements back to the
con ments. We also performed
recalculations of the booked premiums based on these
attributes.

Our result
We found the amounts recognised in respect of the

Company's outward reinsurance premiums to be
acceptable (2018: acceptable).

24
<Page End><Page Start>Subjective valuation:

Valuation of outward reinsurance recoveries on
claims reserve is an area of audit risk due to the
considerable processing and recording of data,
complexity and subjectivity inherent in the
netting down process.

Key factors which increase the risk in the
estimation of recoveries on claims reserves are
as follows:

-The assumptions applied for net reserving
across underwriting years and lines of business,
particularly estimating the initial expected loss
Tatios on the most recent accident years.

-The tevel of subjectivity in the estimated
impact of new or uncertain events.

-The diversity of risks underwritten by the
Company and, therefore, the granular level of

Aspen Insurance UK. Limited - Report and Accounts

Our procedures included:

Our actuarial expertise

We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in
performing our procedures in this area.

Controls design and operation

We tested the design and operation of the Company's controls
over manual controls such as reconciliations between the
accounting ledger and policy administration systems, through
re-performance or inspection.

Substantive testing

Historical comparison

We assessed the reasonableness of net and gross ultimate loss
ratios and net-to-gross IBNR ratios on a whole book and class

reserving that occurs at class level. level by comparing to relevant historical company experience
data. We app lied these net-to-gross ratios to certain individual
classes of business and compared this to the Company's
estimates.

Tests of details

For a sample of reported claims, we have tested the amounts
booked by reference to the projected ultimates, adjusted for
the cash recoveries which we agreed to collection advices.

Onr result

We found the amounts recognised in respect of the
Company's reinsurers' shares of claims outstanding to be
acceptable (2018: acceptable).

3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit

Aspen Insurance UK Limited is part of a group headed by Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited. Materiality of $6.05m (2018: $9.50m), as
communicated by the group audit team, has been applied to the audit of the Company. This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise
have determined by reference to Gross written premium, and represents 0.5% of the Company's Gross written premium (2018: 0.6%). Gross
written premium has been selected as the benchmark due to its relative stability and correlation with business performance and size.

‘We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $0.30m (2018: $0.48m), in
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.

Our audit of the Company was performed at the Company's head office in London, the Bermuda and US office locations, and also included
visits by the audit team to the Company's third party service organisation's office in India

Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above.

The auditor of the parent company, Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, performed testing on controls retating to outward reinsurance and
tests of detail in relation to outwards reinsurance related balances in the financial statements. Audit teams in Bermuda and US performed
tests of detail relating to investments and investment income (including realised and unrealised gains/losses on investments) and account
balances relating to business of the Company in the US, respectively. We instructed auditors in these locations as to the specific procedures
tequired to be performed the information to be reported back.

We evaluated the scope of the work and the information reported back to ensure that it addressed the risks relevant to our audit.

4 We have nothing to report on going concern

The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or to cease
its operations, and as they have concluded that the Company's financial position means that this is realistic. They have also concluded that

25
<Page End><Page Start>there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over its ability to continue as a going concer for at least a year
from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).

Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors' conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to
going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report. However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent
events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of
reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Company will continue in operation.

We identified going concem as a key audit matter (see section 2 of this report). Based on the work described in our response to that key
audit matter, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors' statement
in Note I to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast
significant doubt over the Company's use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial
statements.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

§ We have nothing to report‘on the strategic ‘report and the directors' report
The Directors are responsible for the strategic report and the directors' report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover those
reports and we do not express an audit opinion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the strategic report and the directors' report and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements
audit work, the information therein is materially misstated os inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based
solely on that work:

. we have not identified material misstatements in those reports;

. in our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the directors' report for the financial year is consistent with the
financial statements; and

. in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

* — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or

° the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

° — we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

‘We have nothing to report in these respects.
7 Respective responsibilities

Directors' responsibilities

As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 20, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements
including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Company's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and using the going concer basis of accounting unless they
either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or other irregularities (see below), or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor's report. Reasonable assurance is
a high levet of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
misstatement when it-exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually
or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

Irregularities - ability to detect

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our
-general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management (as required by auditing standards),
and from inspection of the company's regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other management the
policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations. We communicated identified taws and regulations throughout

our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.

26
<Page End><Page Start>Firstly, the company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation
(including related companies legislation), distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance
swith these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the company is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material
effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of company's
licence to operate. We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity recognising
the financial and regulated nature of the company's activities and compliance with regulation relating to sanctions duc to the nature of the
business written by the Company and its customers. Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance
with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence,
if any. These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we. may not have detected some material misstatements in
the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example,
the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the tess likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it. In addition, as with any audit,
there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
taisrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to
detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other
than the Company and the Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Kushan Tikkoo

Kushan Tikkoo
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and.on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor

Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London

E14 5GL

15 May 2020

27
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

‘Income Statement: Technical Account - General Business

For the Year Ended 31 December
Notes 2019 2018
($ in millions)

Gross premiums written 3 1,327.5 1,475.2
Outward reinsurance premiums (722.7) (983.4)
Net premiums written 604.8 491.8
Change in gross provision for unearned premiums 19 42.9 39.3
Change i ision for unearned premiums reinsurers' share 19 (12.0) 17.0
Eatiiéd fet OF reivisurance 635.7 548.1
Allocated investment return transferred from the non-technical account . 115.4 (1.9)
Total technical income 751.1 546.2
‘Claims incurred net of reinsurance
Claims paid

Gross amount (1,004.0) (996.9)

Reinsurers' share 554.9 — 638.0

(449.1) (358.9)
Change in the provision for claims

Gross amount 19 (6.5) 65.7)

Reinsurers' share 19 25.2 32.4
Claims incurred net of reinsurance 4 (430.4) (382.2)
Net operating expenses 6 (290.3) (255.1)
Total claims and éxpenses (720.7). (637.3)
Balance on the technical account - general business 30.4 OLD

The results for the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 are derived from continuing operations.

The notes on pages 32 to 58 form part of these financial statements. 28
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

‘Ancome Statement: Non-Technical Account

For the Year Ended 31 December
Notes 2019 2018
6 in millions)

Balance on technical account general business 30.4 (91.1)
Investment income 7 60.0 62.1
Realised (losses) on investments 7 (2:7) (28:3)
Unrealised gains/(losses) on investments 7 63.0 (32.4)
Investment expenses and charges 7 (4.9) (3.3)
Allocated investment (income)/loss transferred to the. general business

technical account 7 (115.4) 19
Other (expenses)/income 5 (21.8) 51.9
Profit/((loss) before tax 8 8.6 (39.2)
Tax (charge)/credit on loss 10a (7.8) 18.8
Profit loss) after tax for the financial year 0.8 (20.4)

The results for the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 are derived from continuing operations.

Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the Year Ended 31 December
Notes 2019 2018
Gin millions}
Profit / (loss) for the financial year 0.8 (20.4)
(Loss) on foreign exchange translation il G.9) (22.4)
Total comprehensive (loss) for the year B.D (42.8)

The notes on pages 32 to 58 form part of these financial statements. 29
<Page End><Page Start>Statement Of Changes in Equity

2019

Opening shareholder's equity
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Closing sharebolder's equity

2018

Opening, shareholder's equity.
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Closing shareholder's equity

Called
up share

Notes capital

21 614.9

__614.9

Called
up share

Notes _— capital

21 614.9

614.9

The notes on pages 32 to 58 form part of these financial statements.

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Capital Profit and
contribution —_ loss account
reserve
(Sin millions)
470.0 (239.9)
—_ (3.1)
oe 470.0_ — (243.0)
Capital Profit and
contribution —_loss account
reserve

@ in millions)

470.0 97.1)
— (42.8)

470.0 (239.9)

Total

845.0

GB.)
841.9

Total

887.8
(42.8)
845.0

30
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Balance Sheet
As at 31 December
Notes 2019 2018
(S io millions).
ASSETS
Investiieiits
‘Other financial investments 13 2,442.7 2,437.5
Deposits with ceding undertakings 32.4 34.8
Reinsurers' shares of technical provisions
Provision for unearned. premiums 19 130.9 141.8.
Claims outstanding ; 19 2,565.4 2,366.7
Debtors
Debtors arising out of direct insurance operations - intermediaries A712 93.5
Debtors arising out of reinsurance operations 749.1 675.0
Amoiulits due from-fellow gioup undertakings 15 250.4 157.2.
Other debtors 14 16.2 31.3
Other assets : :
Tangible fixed assets 12 0.5 13
Cash at bank and in hand 103.2 142.1
Prepayments and accrued income
Accrued interest and rent 11g 13.2
Deferred acquisition costs 18 152.3 156.7
Total Assets 6,502.2 6,251.1
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Catled up share capital 21 614.9 614.9
Capital contribution reserve 21 470.0 470.0
Profit and toss account (243.0) (239.9)
Shareholder's equity 841.9 845.0
Technical provisions.
Provision for unearned premiums 19 758.0 793.8
Claims outstanding 19 3,834.5 3,787.2
Creditors
Amounts due to fellow group undertakings . 15 749.0 603.4
Other creditors 16 264.6 218.7
Accruals and deferred income 54.2 3.0
Total Liabilities 5,660.3 5,406.1
Total Equity and Liabilities 6,502.2 6,251.1

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on May 12, 2020 and signed on its behalf:

G2 Eee

‘ahame Dawe
Director

The notes on pages 32 to 58 form part of these financial statements. 31
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 December 2019

1. Accounting Policies
1.1 Statement of Compliance

Aspen Insurance UK Limited (the “Company”).is a company limited by shares and-incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Registered Office is 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102: The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (“FRS 102”) and Financial Reporting Standard 103 (FRS 103”),
being applicable UK GAAP accounting standards and in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Large and Medium-sized
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations relating to insurance companies.

These financial statements are prepared under historical cost convention except for certain financial instruments which are
measured at fair value.

1.2 Basis of Preparation

The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 May
2020. The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation

and meet its liabilities as they fall due fora period of at least 12 months from the date that the financial statements are
approved. Inarriving at this conclusion, as explained in further detail on page 12, the Directors have undertaken an assessment
to determine the impact of COVID-19 on the company and its future viability, taking into account the likely impact on the
Company's insured loss exposures, investments and solvency capital position under moderate and severe scenarios, and the
associated sensitivities where relevant. This is supplemented as appropriate, by reverse stress testing to determine the extent
to which capital erosion would have to occur to result in an adverse impact on the Company's ability to meet certain regulatory
capital requirements. The analysis performed demonstrates that the Company remains solvent and retains sufficient headroom
above regulatory capital requirements under moderate and severe scenarios; the reverse stress test indicates that the likelihood
of there being capital erosion to such an extent as to breach the company's regulatory capital requirements is sufficiently
remote.

Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concem basis in preparing the financial statements.

The presentation currency of these financial statements is US dollars. Given the company has annual gross written premium
of more than $1 billion and net assets of over $800 million we consider it appropriate to present all amounts in the financial
statements to the nearest $0.1m.

The Company' '$ parent undertaking, Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited ("ATHL IL") includes the Company i in its consolidated
financial statements. The consolidated financial statements of AIHL are prepared in accordance with US GAAP, available
to the public and may be obtained from 141 Front Street, Hamilton, Bermuda. In these financial statements, the company is
considered to be a qualifying entity (for the purposes of this FRS) and-has applied the exemptions available under FRS 102
in respect of the following disclosures:

* Reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding from the beginning to end of the period;
+ Cash Flow Statement and related notes;

* Requirements of Related Party Disclosures;.

* Key Management Personnel compensation; and

* Certain disclosures required by FRS 102.26 Share Based Payments.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these financial statements.

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses
during the year. However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. The following,
are the Company's key sources of estimation uncertainty and judgment:

Insurance and reinsurance contract technical provisions

For insurance and reinsurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported
at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred, but not yet reported ("IBNR"), at the reporting
date, for both gross and net of reinsurance recoveries. It can take a significant period of time before the ultimate claims cost

32
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

can be established with certainty, and for some types of policies IBNR claims form the majority of the liability in the statement
of financial position. The estimation of IBNR is discussed further under section 1.4.1 - Insurance Contracts: Technical
Provisions.

Provision for unearned premiums and deferred acquisition costs

For (re)insurance contracts management use their judgement in selecting appropriate earnings patterns for the business
underwritten and associated acquisition costs, in particular for contracts where the pattern of loss emergence is likely to be
markedly uneven. Patterns are calculated (determined) with reference to the inception and expiry dates of the policies
concemed and the likely pattern of loss emergence using the same underlying considerations that apply to the technical
provisions, taking into consideration information provided by cedants on loss emergence where appropriate.

Estimates of future premiums

For certain insurance contracts, premium is initially written based on estimates of ultimate premiums receivable. Estimates
are derived from underwriter experience, historical data and broker estimation. These estimates are judgemental and could
result in adjustments in subsequent periods to revenue recorded in the financial statements. The main: assumption underlying
‘these estimates is that past premium development can be used to project future premium development.

Taxation

The Gompany establishes provisions based on reasonable estimates: The amount of such provisions is baséd on various
factors, such as experience with previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the tax authority.

Management estimation is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon likely
timing.and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies.

1.4 Significant Accounting Policies

1.4.1 Insurance contracts.

Gross Premiums

‘Gross written premiums comprise total premiums receivable for the whole period of ‘cover entered into inthe reporting period
plus any adjustments to such premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior reporting periods. All premiums
are shown gross of commissions payable to intermediaries and exclusive of taxes and levies.

Reinsurance Premiums

Reinsurance premiums relating to reinsurance placed by the Company are accounted for using the same accounting
methodology used for inwards premiums.

- Acquisition Costs

Acquisition costs represent commission brokerage, profit commission and other variable costs that relate directly to the
securing of new contracts and renewal of existing contracts. They are generally deferred over the period in which the related
premiums are earned.

Claims

“Claims include all claims occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related internal and extemal claims handling
costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, a reduction for the value of salvage and other
recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years.

Reinsurance claims are recognised when the related gross insurance claim is recognised according to the terms of the relevant
contract.

Technical Provisions

Technical provisions comprise claims outstanding, provisions for unearned premiums and provisions for unexpired risk.
Claims provision

The outstanding claims provision is based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting
date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs and reduction for the expected value of salvage
cand other recoveries. Delays can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of claims, therefore, the
ultimate cost of these cannot be known with certainty at the reporting date. The Company takes all reasonable steps to ensure

33
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

that it has appropriate information regarding its claims exposure. However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims
provisions, it is likely that the final outcome will prove to be different from the original liability established. The liability is
not discounted for the time value of money.

For insurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting
date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred, but not yet reported to the Company, at the reporting date: The
estimation of IBNR is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the cost of settling claims
already notified to the ‘Company, where more information about the claim event is generally available. Claims IBNR may
often not be apparent to the insured until many years after the event giving rise to the claims has happened. Classes of business
where the IBNR proportion of the total reserve is high will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and
final outcomes because of the greater degree of uncertainty of estimating these reserves. Classes of business where claims
are typically reported relatively quickly after the claim event tend to display lower levels of volatility. In calculating the
estimated cost of unpaid claims the Company uses a variety of estimation techniques, generally based upon statistical analyses
of historical experience, which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with past
experience. Allowance is made, however, for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics
or which might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled
claims:

Acomponent of these estimation techniques is usually the estimation of the cost of notified but not paid claims. In estimating
the cost of these claims, the Company has regard to the claim circumstance as reported, any information available from loss
adjusters and information on the cost of-settling claims with similar characteristics in previous periods.

Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed separately, being measured on a case by case
basis or projected separately in order to allow for the possible distortive effect of the development and incidence of these
large claims.

Where possible the Company adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of provisions. This assists in giving
greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected. The projections given by the various methodologies
also assist in setting the range of possible outcomes. The most appropriate estimation technique is selected taking into account
the characteristics of the class and the extent of the development of each accident year. The main projection methodologies
that are used are:

* Initial expected loss ratio(“IELR”) method: This method caiculates an estimate of ultimate losses by applying an estimated
loss ratio to an estimate of ultimate earned premium for each accident year.

* Bombuetter-Ferguson (“BF”) method: The BF method uses as a starting point an assumed IELR and blends in the loss
ratio implied by the claims experience to date by using benchmark loss development patterns on paid claims data (Paid
BF”) or reported claims data (“Reported BF”).

* Loss development (“Chain Ladder”): This method uses actual loss data and the historical development profiles on older
accident years to project more recent, less developed years to their uitimate position.

¢ Exposure-based method: This method is used for specific large typically catastrophic events such as a major hurricane.
All exposure is identified and we work with known market information and information from our cedants to determine
‘a percentage of the exposure to be taken as the ultimate loss.

In addition to these methodologies, our actuaries may use other approaches depending upon the characteristics of the line
of business and available data.

Provisions for unearned premiums

Unearned premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date
computed separately for each insurance contract. Written premiums are recognised as eared over the period of the policy
on a time apportionment basis having regard where appropriate, to the incidence of risk. The proportion attributable to
subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for uneamed premiums.

Uneamed reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the
reporting date. Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for
risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.

Unearned premiums are deemed monetary items and are valued using the closing rate.
Unexpired risks

A liability adequacy provision (the unexpired risks provision) is made where the cost of claims and expenses arising after
the end of the financial year from contracts concluded before that date, is expected to exceed the provision for unearned
premiums, net of deferred acquisition costs, and premiums receivable.

34
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

‘The assessment of whether a provision is necessary is made by considering separately each category of business on the basis
of information available at the reporting date, after offsetting surpluses and deficits arising on products which are managed
together. Investment income is taken into account in calculating the provision.

Deferred acquisition costs

Acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts are deferred commensurate with the unearned premium
provision. Deferred acquisition costs are deemed to be monetary items and are valued using the closing rate.

Reinsurance assets

The Company cedes insurance risk in the normal course-of business for all of its businesses. Reinsurance assets represent
balances due from reinsurance companies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with
the outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsurer's policies and are in accordance with the
related reinsurance contract.

Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each 1 reporting « date, or more frequently, when an indication of impairment
arises during the reporting year. impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred
after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Company may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the
terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Company will receive from the
reinsurer. The impairment loss is recorded in the income statement.

Insurance receivables
Insurance receivables are recognised when due and measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable. The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or

circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the income
statement.

Insurance payables :

insurance payables are recognised when due and measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received
less directly attributable transaction costs. Insurance payables are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is
settled, cancelled or expired.

14.2 Finaiicial listruments

As permitted by FRS 102, the Company has elected to apply the recognition and measurement provisions of IAS 39 Financial _
Instruments to account for ail of its financial instruments.

The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: Equity instruments and other variable-yield securities
-- at fair value through profit or loss and Deposits with credit institutions - loans and receivables. Management determines
the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this at every reporting date.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

A financial asset is classified into this category if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, if it
forms part of a portfolio of financial assets in which there is evidence of short term profit-taking, or if so designated by
management to minimise any measurement or recognition inconsistency with associated liabilities:

Financial assets designated as at “fair value through profit and loss" at inception are those that are managed and whose
performance is evaluated on a fair value basis. Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value
basis to the Company's key management personnel: The Company's investment strategy is to invest in fisted and unlisted
fixed interest rate debt securities, and derivatives designated upon initial. recognition at fair value through profit or Joss.

The fair values of financial instruments traded in active markets are based on quoted bid prices on the balance sheet date. A
market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry
‘group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions
on an arm's length basis.

The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market; are established by the directors using valuation
techniques which seek to arrive at the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants.

Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented
in the Income Statement within ‘Unrealised gains on investments' or ‘Unrealised losses on investments' in the period in
which they arise.

35
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market other than those that the Company intends to sell in the short term or that it has designated as at fair value through
profit or loss. When a financial asset is recognised initially it is measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset. Loans and receivables are subsequently measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest method. Receivables arising from insurance contracts are also classified in this category and
are reviewed for impairment as part of the impairment review of loans and receivables. This basis of valuation is viewed by
the directors as having prudent regard to the likely realisable value.

dmpairment of financial assets

For financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss, the Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether
there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or group of financial
assets is impaired and ‘impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of i impairment as a result of one or
more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event') and that loss event (or events) has an
impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention
of the Company about the following events:

* _ significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor; _
*  abreach of contract, such as a default or delinquency i in payments;
« the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower's financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a
concession that the lender would not otherwise consider;
° it becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
* the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or
* — observable data indicating that there i isa measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flow from a group of
financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the
individual financial assets in the group, including:
* adverse changes in the payment status of issuers or debtors in the group; or
* national or local. economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group:

If there is objective evidence that an. impairment loss has been incurred on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity
investments carried at amortised cost, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying
amountand the present value of estimated future cash fiows ‘(excluding future credit losses thathave been: incurred) discounted
at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss
is recognised in the profit and loss account for the period. If'a held-to-maturity investment or a loan has a variable interest
rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment ioss is the current effective interest rate determined under contract. As
a practical expedient, the Company may measure impairment on the basis of an instrument's fair value using an observable
market price.

. Financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities relate to derivatives which are designated at fair value through profit and loss, and classified in
accruals and deferred income. Creditors are also financial liabilities and are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly

attributable transaction costs. Greditors are subsequently stated at amortised cost; using the effective interest rate method:
For short term creditors (due within one year), no discounting is applied.

Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.

Investment return

Investment return comprises all investment income (which includes the interest income for financial assets carried at amortised
cost, using the effective interest method), realised investment gains and losses and movements in unrealised gains and losses,
net of investment expenses; charges and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost; using the effective
interest method.

Dividends are recognised when the investments to which they relate are declared ‘ex-dividend' and include the imputed tax.
Interest-income is recognised on a time proportionate basis taking into account effective interest method. Interest income
cand payable and dividend income are recognised in the income statement.

Realised gains and losses on investments carried at fair value through profit and loss are calculated as the difference between
net sales proceeds and purchase price. In the case of investments included at amortised cost, realised gains and losses are
calculated as the difference between sale proceeds and their latest carrying value. Movements in unrealised gains and losses

36
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

on investments represent the difference between the fair value at the balance sheet date and their purchase price or their fair
value at the last balance sheet date, together with the reversal of unrealised gains and losses recognised in earlier accounting
periods in respect of investment disposals in the current period.

Anallocation of actual investment retum on investments supporting the genera} insurance technical provisions and associated:
equity is made from the non-technical account to the technical account.

Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the statement of financial position if, and
only if:

¢ There is.a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts; and

* There is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.

4:3 Foreign currency

Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
the operating branch operates:

* The US Boilar is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company; and
+ The Company also operates through a number of discrete overseas branches in Switzerland , Australia,
Singapore and Canada that have separate functional currencies.

“Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of the operating segment at the foreign exchange
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (which include unearned premiums and deferred
acquisition costs) denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency of
the operating segment at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the non-technical profit and loss account.

' Foreign operations
The results and financial position of the overseas branches are translated from functional currency into the presentational
currency of US Dollars as follows:
+ Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date;
‘ * Income and expenses are translated: at the average rate of exchange during the year; and
+ All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.

1.4.4 Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The Company
assesses at each reporting date whether tangible fixed assets are impaired. Depreciation is charged to the Income Statement
at rates calculated to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed. assets by equal instalments over
their estimated useful economic tives as follows:

¢ — Office and Other Equipment 25% per annum

+ | Hardware and Software 333% per annum

¢ Underwriting Platform, Subscribe 20% per annum

* Leasehold Improvements Lesser of 15 years or remaining life of lease

© Depreciation for software commences on the date that the software is brought into use:

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed if there is an indication of a significant change since
Jast annual reporting date in the pattern by which the Company expects to consume an assei's future economic benefits.
1.4.5 Operating leases

Payments (excluding costs for services and insurance) made under operating leases are recognised in the Income Statement
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless the payments:to the lessor are structured to increase in line with
expected general inflation; in which case the payments related to the structured increases are recognised as incurred. Lease
incentives received are recognised in profit and loss over the term of the lease on a straight line basis.

37
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

1.4.6 Dividends

‘Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity when they are approved by the shareholder.
Interim dividends are deducted from equity when they are paid.

1:4;7 Taxation

Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised
directly in equity or other comprehensive income:

‘Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.

Deferred tax is provided on timing differences which arise from the inclusion of income and expenses in tax assessments in
periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.

Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate that is expected to apply to the reversal of the related difference, using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date: Deferred tax balances are not discounted:

Unrelieved tax losses and other.deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that is it probable that they will be
recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits.

2:5 Provisions

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result
ofa past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligation. Provisions are recognised at the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the reporting
date.

38
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184393

2. Risk and Capital Management

The Company i is exposed to a range of financial risks through i its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets
and policyholder liabilities. in particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient
to fund the obligations arising from insurance policies as they fall due. The most important components of this. financial
risk are insurance risk, market risk (including interest rate risk and currency risk) credit risk, and liquidity risk.

The key-risks for the Company are.as set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section within the Strategic Report.

(a) Risk Governance and Risk Management Strategy

The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) considers effective identification, measurement, monitoring,
management and reporting of the risks facing our business to be key elements of its responsibilities. The Board ensures that
the Company operates an effective risk management and control framework which includes risk management, compliance
and internal control systems: The Board uses a Risk sub-committee to support the oversight of the Company'srisk management
processes.

The Company, as an operating entity within the Aspen Group, benefits from the Group's established risk management
practices. The Group' s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group and the
Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and:adherence to limits. Risk management policies
and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company's activities. Further details on
the Group wide risk management strategy can be found in the consolidated financial statements of AIHL which are available
to the public.

(6) Capital Management Objective, Policies and Approach

The Company's capital management approach and policy is set out within its risk appetite statement which is summarised:
in the Risk Appetite section within the Strategic Report

(Insurance Risk

Insurance risk is defined as the risk that underwriting results vary from their expected amounts, including the risk that reserves
established in respect of prior periods are understated. Insurance risk includes the following:

(a) Underwriting risk: The variation of accident year technical result from its expected value. Underwriting risk can
be further split into sub-categories including:
¢ Catastrophe accumulation risk: The risk that losses from natural catastrophes exceed expected levels;
. Pricing calibration risk: The risk that actual technical results differ from expected values as a result of
invalid assumptions, methodology or parameters used in the pricing process;
+ Large claims risk: The risk that losses from a single man-made event, or group of related events, exceed
the expected levels;
+  Attritional risk: The risk that the total of all losses other than catastrophe and large losses exceeds the
expected level; and
* Reinsurance mitigation risk: The risk that gross losses are not reduced by reinsurance recoveries to the
extent expected.
(b) Reserving risk: The variation in policyholder reserves for prior accident years.

Processes for addressing and monitoring risk

AIUK model their exposure to underwriting and.reserving risks using the Internal Model to measure the associated capital
requirements on both the Solvency II SCR regulatory basis and an intemal basis. The internal basis uses a US GAAP
balance sheet and measures the capital required to write one year's business to ultimate. Modelling of insurance risk
exposure is the key process for monitoring and managing insurance risk.

The Reserving policy and Aspen Group Underwriting Risk Policy evidence how Aspen manages the risk of loss or of
adverse change in the values of insurance and reinsurance liabilities, resulting from inadequate pricing and provisioning
assumptions.

‘The Underwriting Risk Policy requires and defines the use of Aspen Underwriting Principles (AUPs*) or Underwriting
Guidelines for each underwriting team, and similarly the Group Pricing Standard establishes the requirements that must

be addressed by the Pricing Policy Document (“PPD”) for each portfolio. AUPs or Underwriting guidelines set out a series
of key principles translated into specific guidelines, requirements, processes and management controls, the compliance

39
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

of which is mandatory for all Underwriters. The PPDs set out a series of standards and principles to apply to all business
underwritten.

The Group Claims risk policy sets out the core risk Management requirements for the Claims process. The UK Piatform
Claims Procedures apply to claims handling in respect of ATUK claims. It covers the full claims cycle and is supported:
by a range of detailed procedures. It includes specific considerations in respect of the handling of ATUK claims.

The Reinsurance Mitigation Policy defines Aspen's approach to managing the risk that gross losses are not reduced by
reinsurance recoveries to the extent expected. The Insurance Accumulation Risk policy defines Aspen's approach to
management of material risk concentrations by categorising those risks, setting tolerances and limit, measuring, monitoring,
reporting and escalating Natural Catastrophe and Non Natural catastrophe accumulations.

The Key Risk limits are monitored and reported in the UK Certified Risk Officer's report to the AIUK Risk Committee.

Material Risk Concentrations

AIUK has limited its exposure to material risk concentrations by imposing maximum claim amounts on certain contracts as
well as the use of reinsurance arrangements in order to limit exposures so they are managed within key risk limits. The
material risk concentrations managed via Key Risk limits include natural catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes
and flood: damage) and man-made catastrophic events (such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and losses resulting from political
instability). The effectiveness of these risk mitigation techniques is assessed through continual monitoring of the underlying
risk profile and escalation of deviations from plan.

Sensitivity of insurance risk

The liabilities established could be significantly lower or higher than the uitimate cost of settling the claims arising. This
level of uncertainty varies between the classes of business and the nature of the risk being written and can arise from
developments i in case reserving for large losses and catastrophes, or from changes in estimates of claims incurred but not
reported. A 5% increase or decrease in total claims liabilities would have the following effect on profit or loss:

Year ended 31 December 2019 2018
{$ in millions) 5% Increase 5% Decrease ‘5% Increase 5% Decrease
Total (60.8) 60.8 (74.9) 749

Claims development table

Reserves are required owing to the time between the occurrences, reporting and eventual settlement of a loss, which, for
some lines of business, can be several years. Since reserves are an estimate of the likely outcome of these future events,
they are subject to a degree of volatility. "That is, the actual emergence of ultimate losses can be expected to differ, perhaps
materially, from any estimate of such losses. The users should be aware that loss payment and loss reporting patterns are
not the only considerations in establishing loss reserves.

in setting claims provisions the Company gives consideration to the probability and magnitude of future experience being
more adverse than assumed and-exercises a degree of caution in setting reserves where there is considerable uncertainty. In
general, the uncertainty associated with the ultimate claims experience in an accident year is greatest when the accident year
is at an early stage of development and the margin necessary to provide the necessary confidence in the provisions adequacy
is relatively at its highest. As claims develop, and the ultimate cost of claims becomes more certain, the relative level of
margin maintained should decrease. The following | tables show an analysis of incurred claims and allocated loss adjustment
expenses and net of reinsurance as at 31 December 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2013 and 2011. The toss
development triangles are derived from ail business written by the Company, as although a limited number of contracts are
written which have durations of greater than one year the contracts do not meet the definition of a long duration contract.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional rules of FRS 103 that permit only five years of information to be
disclosed upon adoption. The claims development information disclosed is being increased from five years to ten years over
the period 2015-2020. Therefore, nine years of information are shown in these financial statements.

40
<Page End><Page Start>Gross insurance contract claims incurred as at 31 December 2019:

Before
2011
Sm

20H
Sm

2012

Accident year : Sm

Estimate of
cumulative claims
incurred

At end of accident
year

One year later
Two years later
Three years later
Four years later
Five years later
‘Six years later
Seven years later
Eight years later
Current estimate of

cumulative

claims incurred 7,173.7

968.2

917.5

2013
Sm

772.9

Net insurance contract claims incurred as‘at 3] December 2019:

Before
2011
$m

2011
$m

at year

2012
$m

2013
$m.

2014
Sm

7710

2014
Sm:

Aspen Insurance UK Limited ~ Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

2015
$m

2016
Sm

2017
Sm

2018
$m

2019
Sm:

$83.2
834.4

1225.8 901.0

1,252.4

1,075.9
1,190.9
816.0
7142
824.1

824.1 1,133.9 1,307.1 1,190.9 9010

2015
$m

2016
Sa.

2017
$m.

2018
Sm

2019
$m-

Estimate of cumulative
claims incurred

At end of accident year
One year later

Two years later

Three years iater

Four years. later

Five years later

44
S159
ATVI
4758
463.2
47
4355
416

Six yéais later
Seven years later
Eight years later
Current estimate of

cumulative
claims incurred

406.4
3,873.3

406.4

(@ Market Risk

326.0
3793
4168
ath?
4243
436.1
499
3826

382.6

299.1

3503
44.6
305.7
292.2
274.2

274.2

ai24 3342

5776

455.6
4249

3065
SIS
532.3
$339

270.9

532.7 424.9 $77.6 534.2

Market risk is defined as the risk of variation in the income generated by, and the fair value of, AIUK's investment portfolio,
cash and cash equivalents and derivative contracts including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Within our Risk Universe we define six categories of market risk:

Ly)

ca result of currency rate movements.

2) . Fixed income security ri

Foreign currency risk: The risk of adverse variation in the US dollar value of net assets in foreign currencies as

The risk of variation in the market vaiue of fixed income securities or derivatives.

Fixed income security risk can be further split into sub-categories including:

Interest rate risk: The risk of variation in the market value of fixed income securities as a result of changes in
prevailing interest rates. We classify reinvestment risk as the risk of lower yields on the reinvestment of the proceeds
from coupons payments, maturities and prepayments, which is a sub-category of interest rate risk.

4l
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Spread risk (including default risk): The yield of a non-government fixed income security can be divided into two
parts:

(6) The ‘risk free' rate, being the yield of the treasury security issued by the country in which the issuer operates
which is closest to it in maturity; and
{ii} The ‘spread' of the yield over the risk free rate (= total yield - risk free rate).

The spread is normally positive because it represents the extra consideration required by the market to compensate for the
greater risk (compared to the Government issuer) of default on interest or redemption. The spread may also be influenced
by the actual or perceived liquidity or marketability of the security.

The spread of a bond also adjusts over time to reflect the spread required on similar new issues. This movement up or down
in spread therefore also contributes to overall market risk and ATUK calls this ‘spread risk'. ATUK also includes within spread
risk the risk that a security falls in value as a result of being downgraded by a rating agency as this will also cause the spread
to increase. The risk of actual default on interest or redemption as a special case of spread risk is aiso included. This defauit
risk is actually a type of credit risk but it is appropriate to deal with it here under market risk because of the way it is modelled
in the Intemmal Model as an extreme case of downgrade risk.

Spread risk is managed by limiting the overall credit quality of the investment portfolio and the concentrations of investments

with specific issuers of investments. This risk is mitigated by limiting exposure to any single counterparty.

- 3) Equity risk: AIUK defines Equity risk as the risk of adverse movements in the market price of investments
(or their derivatives) other than fixed income securities. Unlike Fixed Income Securities the value of equities is
not directly linked to interest rates and spreads, there are many factors that affect the value of investments. The
Company does not invest in equities so this risk is not currently relevant to the Company.

4) Market risk mitigation risk: The risk of variation in the value or effectiveness of hedging positions.

5) Asset concentration risk: The aggregate value of AIUK's investment portfolio may be at greater risk if it is
overexposed to the same asset or a group of similar assets with similar risk dynamics. Concentrations which
AIUK seek to manage include types of asset (e.g. mortgage backed securities), economic sector of issuer and
securities of the same issuer.

6) Valuation Risk: Some assets within AIUK's investment portfolio can be “private assets” for which there are no
readily available market prices. There is a risk that the approaches used to value these “private assets” result in
incorrect correct Values. As at 31 December 2019 ATUK did not have any investments in “private assets”

Concentrations which AIUK seek to manage for this reason include types of asset (e.g. mortgage backed securities),
economic sector of issuer and securities of the same issuer.

Processes for addressing and monitoring risk

As with Insurance risk, Aspen model exposure to market risk using the Internal Model to measure the associated capital
requirements on both an internal basis and the Solvency II SCR regulatory basis. Modelting market risk exposures is a key
process for monitoring and managing market risk.

The Investment Risk Policy and Guidelines describes the investment strategy in the context of the annual business plan,
asset allocation, and concentration limits at group and AIUK levels.

The Investment Risk Policy and Guidelines describes the measurement of market risks, and specifically describes what is
permissible with regards to the use of derivatives in order to manage currency positions, portfolio duration and interest rate
risk in the investment portfolio.

Use of derivatives is limited to interest rate swaps, forward rate transactions, bond options, interest rate futures, foreign
exchange spot and forward transactions and currency options. During 2019, ATUK only entered into foreign exchange forward
transactions and has no off balance sheet exposures.

The Asset and Liability Management Policy defines Aspen's approach to duration and currency matching. Management
monitors the value, currency and duration of cash and investments held by AIUK to ensure that it is able to meet the insurance
and other liabilities as they become due. The following components of both cash matching and duration matching are employed
to manage the investment portfolio:

* the average duration of liabilities;

42
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

¢ the outlook for interest rates and the yield curve;
« the need for cash to pay claims; and
* total return.

Material Risk Concentrations

As with Insurance Risks as well as modelling exposures and the capital required to address potential market risks using the
Internal Model ATUK has also limited its exposure to material risk concentrations through the use of Key Risk Limits. These
material risk concentrations include foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity risk.

Key Risk limits regarding asset allocation, overall credit rating and the volatility of ATUK's investment portfolio have been
defined by management and approved by the Board. in order that AIUK can manage its currency risks within the regulatory
parameters required, a Key Risk Limit approved by the Board limits the mismatch between assets and liabilities where there
are material positions in currencies other than the functional currency of AIUK. The effectiveness of risk mitigation techniques
is.assessed through continual monitoring of the underlying risk profile and escalation of any deviations from plan.

Sensitivity analysis

Foreign currency risk

As at 31 December 2019; if the U.S. Dollar had weakened / strengthened by 10% with all other variables held constant the
loss for the year would have been $1.8m (2018: $6.8m) higher / lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains / tosses
on the translation of non U.S. Dollar denominated financial assets, and foreign exchange losses / gains on translation of non
U.S. Dollar denominated insurance liabilities.

Interest rate risk
The table below depicts interest rate change scenarios and the effect on Profit 0 it or loss from AIUK?'s interest rate sensitive
invested assets:

i basis paiats -160 “50 +50 +100
31 December 2019 .
Fixed income portfolio effect - gain/(loss) ($m) 73.3 36.7 (36.7) (73.3)
31 December 2018
Fixed income portfolio effect - gain/(loss) ($m) 75.3 37.6 (37.6) (75.3)

Given the outbreak of the coronavirus, which has materially affected the valuation of investments since year-end,
we have chosen to additionally show the sensitivity on 31 March 2020 values.

31 March 2020
Fixed income portfolio effect - gain/(loss) ($m) BB 36.9 (36.9) {73.8)

Spread risk

As past of spread risk ATUK include the risk that a security falls in value as a result of being downgraded by a rating agency
as this will also cause the spread to increase. ATUK includes the risk of actual default on interest or redemption as a special
case of spread risk. Whilst this default risk is actually a type of credit risk it is convenient to deal with it within market risk
because of the way AIUK model it in the Intemal Model as an extreme case of downgrade risk.

The table below depicts spread change scenarios and the effect on profit or loss from AIUK's spread sensitive invested assets:

Cérporate bond Spreads 44 +50 +100 4200

31 December 2019

Fixed income portfolio effect - gain/(loss) ($m) 13.0 (14.8) (29.5) (59.0)
(e) Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk of loss to AUK if the counterparty to a financial instrument or reinsurance agreement fails to meet

43
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

its contractual obligations. AUK is exposed to credit risk through its investment holdings. As already stated within the
Internal Model and management process, AIUK treats credit risk relating to investments (including cash and debt securities)
as part of Market risk.

Counterparty default risk

AIUK is also exposed to credit risk through the diminution in the value of insurance receivables as a result of counterparty
default. This principally comprises default and concentration risks relating to amounts receivable from intermediaries,
policyholders and reinsurers. Reinsurance and retrocession does not isolate ATUK from its obligations to policyholders. In
the event that a reinsurer or retrocessionaire fails to meet its obligation, ATUK's obligations remain.

Processes for addressing and monitoring risk

As with Insurance risk, AIUK model exposure to credit risks using the Internal Model to measure the associated: capital:
requirements on both an internal basis and the Solvency II SCR regulatory basis. Modelling of credit risk exposures is the
‘key process for monitoring and managing credit risk.

The processes for addressing credit risk in relation to financial instruments has already been dealt with as part of the explanation
ofthe processes to address market risk. The Group Insurance Credit Risk policy defines the processes for assessing, monitoring
and managing credit exposure to intermediaries, policyholders and reinsurance counterparties.

Material Risk Concentrations

AIUK limits its exposure to material risk concentrations through the use of Key Risk Limits. ATUK is potentially exposed
to concentrations of credit risk in respect of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, and insurance and reinsurance balances
owed by the brokers with whom it transacts business. AIUK manages the ieveis of credit risk by placing limits on its exposure
toa single counterparty, or groups of counterparty. Such risks are subject to regular review. The creditworthiness of reinsurers
is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any contract. In addition,

management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers and intermediaries by reviewing credit grades provided by rating
agencies and other publicly available financial information. The recent payment history of reinsurers is also used to update
the reinsurance purchasing strategy. AIUK has risk limits for the amount of exposure to both third party and intragroup
related reinsurers and any breaches of those limits are reported to the AIUK Risk Committee and Board. The effectiveness
of these risk mitigation techniques is assessed through continual monitoring of the underlying risk profile.

For the Year Eaded 31 December

2019 2018
Sin millions)
Reinsuirers' share of claims outstanding 2,565.4 2,366.7
Debtors arising out of direct insurance operations - intermediaries 47.2 93.5
Debtors arising out of reinsurance operations 749.1 675.0
‘Cash at'bank anid if hand 103.2 142.1
Deposits with ceding undertakings 32.4 348
Loans and receivables 16.2 313
Debt securities and other fixed income securities : 2,138.7 2,214.5
Short term investments 297.1 216.8
Derivative financial assets 6.9 6.2
Total assets bearing credit risk §,956.2 5,780.9
AAA 279.9 . 339.7
AA 1,378.5 1,319.0
A 546.4 567.0
BBB 60.8 72.3
Below BBB —_ 0.5
Other 3,690.6 3,482.4
Total assets. bearing credit risk §,956.2 5,780.9

Collateral
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty. Guidelines are
implemented regarding the acceptability of types of collateral and the valuation parameters. Credit risk is also mitigated by
entering into collateral agreements. Management monitors the market value of the collateral, requests additional collateral
when needed and performs an impairment valuation when applicable. At 31 December 2019, the fair value of such collateral
held was $450.0m (2018: $412.0m). No collateral received from the counterparty has been sold or repledged (2018: Nil).

@ Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk of failing to maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to meet liabilities as they fall
due or to provide collateral as required for commercial or regulatory purposes.

Liquidity risk includes the following:

i) Payment default risk: The risk that there is insufficient cash to make payments when due and that no additional
Gash can be made available by borrowing, salé of assets or Capital raisiiig.

ii) Risk of unplanned asset realisation losses: The risk that securities are required to be sold at a loss to meet liquidity
requirements.

iii) Risk of failure of credit facility: The risk that advances from the credit facility are unavailable:
iv) Group liquidity risk: The risk that liquidity cannot be secured. for a Group. company from elsewhere in the Group.

y) Collateral risk: The risk that ATUK is unable to provide collateral to a third party when contractually required to do

Processes for addressing and monitoring risk

Unlike Insurance, Market and Credit Risk ATUK does not mode/ and manage liquidity risk using its internal Model as it is
not a risk that is mitigated by holding capital against it. ATUK's annual Stress & Scenario Testing (“SST”) process is used.
to determine the basis of the Key Liquidity risk limit. The Liquidity Risk Policy provides further details of how liquidity
risks are identified, monitored, managed and modelled. This inctudes details of an escalation process for a breach of the
minimum free funds limit.

Material Risk Concentrations

AIUK limits its exposure to material risk concentrations through the operation of the Liquidity Risk Policy. This highlights
the measures that Aspen have put in place in order to maintain an agreed amount of unencumbered assets in cash and cash
equivalents. These measures include concentration limits to ensure the liquidity of assets, appropriateness of the marketability
or realisability of assets and a liquidity contingency funding plan.

Liquidity stress testing is carried out against ATUK's and the Group's risk profiles at least annually by the Risk Management
department as part of the Stress and Scenario Testing programme. This allows management to identify the potential strains
on ATUK's liquidity as a result of the scenarios assessed as well as gaining understanding of the Group's ability to support
the liquidity needs of entities such as AIUK as the need arises. Cash-flow forecasting is also used to reduce liquidity risk.
The effectiveness of these risk mitigation techniques is assessed through continual monitoring of the underlying risk profile.
The table below analyses the Company's liabilities into their relevant maturity groups based on the period remaining at
the year end to their contractual maturities or expected settlement dates:

45
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

3i Daceinber 2019 Uptolyeir  1-3yeats
(Sin millions)
Claims outstanding 933.7 1,047.7 $72.3 1,280.8 3,834.5
Provision for unearned premiums 486.0 157.0 60.6 544 758.0
Amounts due to group undertakings 749.0 _ _ _ 749.0
Other creditors 264.6 _— _— — 264.6
Accruals and deferred income 54.2 = — _ 542
“Total 2,487.5 1,204.7 632.9 1,335.2 5,660.3
31 December 2018 Up to 1 year 1-3 years 3S years Over 5 years Total
(S iii ims)
Claims outstanding 956.7 1,230.4 589.0 1,011.1 3,787.2
Provision for unearned premiums 545.4 158.7 48.4 41.3 793.8
Amounts due to group undertakings 603.4 _ —_ _ 603.4
Other creditors 218.7 _— = - 218.7
Accruals and deferred income 3.0 _ _— — 3.0
Total 2327.2 1,389.1 637.4 1,052.4 §,406.1

46
<Page End><Page Start>3. Segmental Information

Direct insurance:

Fire and other damage to property
Third party liability

Marine, aviation and transport
Credit and suretyship

Reinsurance acceptances:
Credit and suretyship

Fire and other damage to property
Miscellaneous

Marine, aviation and transport
Motor (third-party liability)

‘Third party liability

Direct insurance:

Fire and other damage to property
Third party liability

Marine, aviation and transport
Credit and suretyship

Reinsurance acceptances:
Credit and suretyship

Fire and other damage to property
Miscellaneous

Marine, aviation and transport
Motor (third-party liability)

Third party liability

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

For the Year Ended 31 December 2019

Registered Number: 1184193

Grass Gross Gross
Premiums Claims Operating Reinsurance Underwriting
Earned Incurred Expenses Balance Result
(Gin millions)
138.7 (110.9) (39.2) 29.6 18.2
1703 (155.2) (39.9) 24.0 (0.8)
35.5 (139.0) (15.0) 92.4 (26.1)
66.4 (15.2) (25.3) (23.2) 27
410.9 (420.3) (119.4) 122.8 (6.0)
105.8 (61.7) (44.7) (9.3) @.9)
423.3 (226.1) (151.72) (67.7) (22.2)
24 (2.1) (37.2) (5.4) (42.3)
107.0 (50.8) (25.7) (22.4) 8E
448 (36.7) (9.3) 4.1 29
276.2 ‘Q12.7) (925) 13.4 5-6)
959.5 (590.1) @6t.1) (87.3) (79.0)
1,370.4 (1,010.4) (480.5) 35.5 (85.9)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2018
Gross Gross Gross
Premiums Claims Operating Reinsurance Underwriting
Earned [ocurred Expenses Balance Result
($ in millions)
149.2 (119.7) (42.7) 15.0 18
183.4 (159.8) (43.9) 99 (7.4)
60.0 (27.5) (ILS) (18.9) 21
62.4 (43.0) (22.7) Lt (2.2)
454.0 (350.0) (426.8) 71 (15.7)
143.1 (67.9) (58.0) (21.3) 41)
467.5 (301.0) (147.5) (78.6) (59.6)
44 (11.5) (1.8) 10.5 (84)
339 (555) (36.4) (iiss 48
40.0 (31.4) 9.9) 14 0.1
312.6 (235.0) (84.3) 0.4 (6.3)
1,060.5 (302.7) @G319) (99.4) (73.5)

The underwriting result Tepresents the balance on the technical account before investment income. The reinsurance balance
is the aggregate total of all those items included in the technical account which relate to reinsurance outwards transactions
including items recorded as reinsurance commissions and profit participation as noted in Note 6.

The above analysis does not reflect the way in which the business is managed. For example, ceding commission is applied
consistently across each line of business above, however this does not reflect the known differences in acquisition costs

between lines of business.

47
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

' Geographical analysis
The following is a breakdown by geography of the gross written premium, (on the basis of the country where ATUK had
operations writing the business):

For the Year Ended 31 Déceniber

2019 2018
( in millions)

662.1 7266
USA 395.0 366.3
Switzerland 94.7 197.9
Republic Sf Wélanid 16.7 36.0
Canada 24.6 15.7
Australia . $1.9 43.1
Singapore 43.0 48.7
United Arab Emirates . 39.4 38.7
France _— Ll
Germany 0.1 Lk

1,327.5 1,475.2

4.
For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 - 2018
(S in millions)
Current year claims movement (415.5) (519.3)
Prior years' claims movement (14.9) 137.1
(430.4) (382.2)
5. Other Expenses / Income

Other expenses of $21.8m (income in 2018: $51.9m) consist mainly of realised foreign exchange losses (2018: gains).

6: Net Operating Expenses

For the Year Ended 31 December

2019 2018

. (S in millions)
Acquisition costs : 323.1 334.2
Change in net deferred acquisition costs 78 12.9
. : 330.9 347.1

Administrative expenses 144.2 112.0
Gross operating expenses ; 475.1 459.)
Reinsurance commission and profit participation (184.8) (204.0)

290.3 255.1

Commissions in respect of direct insurance business amounted to $65.2m (2018: $84.1m).

48
<Page End><Page Start>7 Investment Return

Income from other financial investments

Net-gains on realisation of investments:
Fair value through profit or loss designated upon initial recognition
Realised (losses) on derivative contracts

Total investment. income .

Net unrealised gains/(losses) on investments:
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or Joss
Unrealised gains / (losses) on derivatives contracts

Investment expenses and charges

Total investment return / (loss)

8. Profit-and Loss Account
Loss before tax is stated after charging:

Depreciation of tangible fixed assets (Note-12)

Defined contribution plan expense

Share based payments made to directors and employees (Note 22)

Auditor's remuneration

Audit of these financial statements

Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of:
Audit related assurance services
Other non-audit services

9. Directors' Emoiuments

The aggregate emoluments of the Directors were as follows:

Aggregate emoluments
Aggregate contributions to pension schemes

Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018
(S in miltions)
60.0 : 62.1
9.0 (2.0)
(11.7) (26.3)
57.3 33.8.
55:9 (25:2)
val (7.2)
(49) G3)

115.4 (1.9)

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018
(Sin millions)

0:8 0:8

3.2 4.0

(1.0) 17

0.8 0.7

0.3 0.3

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018

3.1 1.0

No (2018: no) Directors exercised share options in respect of qualifying services under long term incentive schemes. No
(2018: no) advances or credits were granted to any Director subsisted during the year and no (2018: no) guarantees on behalf

of any Director were subsisted during the year.

49
<Page End><Page Start>Aspeu Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

Highest Paid Director
For the Year Ended 31 December —
2019 2018
{Sin millions)
Aggregate emoluments and benefits 14 0.2

Aggregate contributions to pension scheme _ _

In respect of the highest paid Director share options in respect of qualifying services under long term incentive schemes
were received in the year and shares were receivable in respect of qualifying services under long term incentive schemes.

10a. Taxation

For-the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018
(S in millions)

U.K. corporation tax (charge) / credit
Current tax on result for the year @:3) 19:5
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.4) —
Total current tax (charge)/credit @G.7) 19.5
Deferred tax (see note 106) .
Origination /.reversal of timing differences _ CD
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (4.1) 0.4
Total deferred tax (charge) (4.1) (0.7)
Tax (charge)/credit on profit on ordinary activities 7.8) 18.8

The tax charge (20.18: credit) for the period is higher.(2018: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of
19%, The differences are explained below.

For the Year Ended 31 December

2019 2018
(Gin millions)

Tax reconciliation
Profit / (loss) before tax 8.6 (39.2)
€urrent tax (charge)/credit at 19% (1:6) 75
Effects of:
Non-deductible expenses (0:1) _
Impact of overseas tax - (1.5) (0.1)
Foreign exchange 0.1 (L.72)
Reversal of uncertain tax position — 13:0
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (4.5) 0:4
Permanent differences in respect of fixed assets (0.2) 7 (0.3)
Totat tax (charge) / credit (7.8) 18.8

The $13.0m reversal of an uncertain tax position in 2018 relates to the successful conclusion of an HMRC inquiry which
enabled the release of a provision held against the potential disallowance of a prior period adjustment.

50
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts
Registered Number: 1184193

10d. Deferred Taxation
The deferred tax asset recognised in the financial statements is as follows:

For the Year Ended 3i December

2019 2018
. ($ in millions)
‘Temporary differences related to foreign tax = 0.9
‘Temporary differences ‘related to overseas branches : 40 iL
Temporary differences related to FRS 102 transitional adjustments (0.4) (0.4)
Losses carried forward: 5.0 1.1
8.6 : 12.7

th. Currency Translation

The currency translation loss of $3.9m (2018: $22.4m loss) represents unrealised losses (2018: loss) arising from the
translation into U.S. Dollars of the Company's branch operations. The functional currencies of the Company's branches are
Euros, Australian Dollars, Singaporean Boilars and Canadian Boliars. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
translated into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the Balance Sheet date. The exchange differences arising from
this translation are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

12. Tangible Assets
Details of tangible asset net book values as at the Balance Sheet date by major category are given below:

Office and Other Leasehold Hardware and
Equipmeat {mprovements Software Total Assets
(Sin millions)
Cost
As at 1 January 2019 2.4 14.9 56.4 73.7
As at 31 December 2019 2.4 14.9 56.4 73.7
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2019 2.4- 13.6 56.4 724
Movement in the year —_ 0.8 _ 0.8
As at 31 December 2019 2.4 14.4 56.4 73.2
Net Book Value
As at 31 December 2018 _— 13 _ 13
As at 31 December 2019 _ 6.5 _— 0.5

51
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

8B. Other Financial Assets and Liabilities

For the Year Ended 3t For the Year Ended 3
December 2019 December 2018
Cost Market Value Cost Market Value
(S im millions) . (3 it millions)
Financial assets at fair value
Derivative assets held at fair value through profit and loss —_ 6.9 — 6.2
Debt securities and other fixed income securities 2,124.4 2,138:7 2;301.7 232145
‘Short term ‘investments 294.6 297.1 218.4 216.8
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 2,419.0 2,442.7 2,520.1 2,437.5

Financial liabilities at fair value
Derivative liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss _ 40 _ 10.4

Listed Investments
Included in the carrying values above are amounts in respect of listed investments as follows:

For the Vear Ended 31

For the Year Ended 31
December 2019 December 2018
Cost Market Value Cost Market Value —
(Sit simian) Git HaiMsas)
Financial Assets at. fair value
Debt securities and other fixed income securities 2,059.4 2,070.8 2,239.3 2,153.1
Short term investments 124.3 126.8 218.4 216.8
Total financial assets 2,183.7 2,197.6 2,457.7 2,369.9

There was no material change in fair value for financial instruments held at fair value (other than derivatives) attributable
to own credit risk in the current or comparative period.

Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss

The Company uses limited forward foreign currency contracts to mitigate some adverse movements associated with changes
in foreign exchange rates in respect of changes in the foreign currency rate form the collection of premiums to the payment
of claims by fixing the rate of any material payments in a foreign currency.

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018

(S in millions)
Total financial assets 6.9 6.2
Total financial liabilities 40 10.4

The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been
defined as follows:

Level 1 Quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). :

Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable
inputs).

52
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK. Limited - Report and Accounts

The following table presents the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 December 2019 and 31 December
2018:

For the Year Eitdéd 31 Deceiver 2019

Level t Level 2 Level 3 Total
(Sin millions) G in millions) {(S in millious) ($ in millions)
Financial assets at fair value
Debt securities and other fixed income 865.1 1,273.6 _— 2,138.7
Short term investments 296.0 Li — 297.1
Derivatives _ 6.9 —_ 69
1,161.1 1,281.6 _— 2,442.7
Financial liabilities at fair value
Derivatives _ (4.0) _— (4.0)
Total 1,161.1 1,277.6 2,438.7
For the Year Ended 31 December 2018
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Gin milliovs) G ia millions) G in millions) {S in millions)
Financial assets at fair value
Debt securities and other fixed income 962.4 1,252.1 —_— 2,214.5
Short term investments 214.8 2.0 _ 216.8
Equity Investments _ _ _ to
Derivatives _ 6.2 _ 6.2.

1,177.2 1,260.3 = 2,437.5

Financial liabilities at fair value ;
Derivatives —_— (10:4) _ (10:4)

Total 1,197.2 1,249.9 _ 2,427.1

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted bid prices at the balance sheet date as
described in the accounting policy. These instruments are included in Level 1. instruments included in Level 1 comprise
primarily listed debt securities.

The Company closely monitors the valuation of assets in markets that have become less liquid. Determining whether a market
‘is.active requires the exercise of judgement and is determined based upon the facts and circumstances of the market for the
instrument being measured. Where it is determined that there is no active market, fair value is established using a valuation
technique. The techniques applied incorporate relevant information available and reflect appropriate adjustments for credit
and liquidity risks. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as
little as possible on entity specific estimates. The relative weightings given to differing sources of information and the
determination of non-observable inputs to valuation models can require the exercise of significant judgement.

‘Tf all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2. Instruments
included in Level 2 comprise primarily U.S. Governmentand Agency Securities, Municipal Securities, Non-U.S. Government
Securities, Corporate Securities and Mortgage-backed Securities.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3. The
Company has no level 3 instruments (2018: none).

Transfers of assets into or out of a particular level are recorded at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period,
consistent with the date of the determination of fair value. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of non-US
government securities during the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 (2018: $5.2m). There were no transfers between
Level 2 and Level 3 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 (2018: No transfers).
<Page End><Page Start>14. Other Debtors

Deferred tax asset (Note 10b)
Corporation tax
Sundry debtors

5: Amounts due to / from fellow group undertakings

Amounts due to fellow group undertakings
Amounts due to fellow group undertakings
Amounts due to ultimate parent

Amounts due from fellow group undertakings
Amounts due from fellow group undertakings

For the Year Ended 31 ‘December

2019 2018
(Sin millions)
8:6 12:7
— 12.0
7.6 6.6

16.2 313

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018
- in millions)
749.0 598.4

= 5.0
749.0 603.4

250.4 157.2
250.4 157.2

Within amounts due from fellow group undertakings the foliowing inter-company ioans are included:
*  $42.0m (2018: $48.0m) loan issued on L April 2017 by ATUK to AIUKS, this loan bears interest of 5.65% per annum.
+ $10.4m (2018: Nil) loan issued on 23 May 2019 by AIUK to Aspen Underwriting Limited, this loan bears interest

of LIBOR plus 1.375% and

+  $21.5m (2018: $25.8m) loan issued.on 15 December 2014 by ATUK to Aspen U.S. Holdings, Inc., this loan bears

interest of 6.35%

16. Other Creditors

Underwriting creditors

Fair value in respect of derivatives
Other indirect taxes

Corporation tax

a: Contingencies and Other Liabilities

For the Year Ended 31 December.

2019 2018
Gin millions)
255.9 203.9
4:0 10:4
3.4 44
13 —

264.6 218.7

At 31 December 2019 and 2018 the Company had granted charges over a variety of its assets in the ordinary course of
business in respect of potential future insurance liabilities and as collateral for letters of credit and U.S. and Canadian Trust

funds. The charged assets comprised the following categories:

US. Surplus Lines Trust
US. Reinsurance Trust Fund
Australia Branch

Canadian Branch

Other

For the Year Ended 31 December

2019 2018
(Sin millions)
128.0 124.0
999.0 941.0
160.0 147.0
120.0 112.0
450.0 412.0

1,857.0 1,736.0

54
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

The Company had no other contingencies or other liabilities at the reporting date.

18. Deferred Acquisition Costs

For the Year Ended 31 December

2019 2018”
(S iti mailto)
At 1 January 156.7 176.7
Movement in the year (Note 6) (7.8) (12.9)
Exchange adjustments 34 (7.12)
At 31 December 152.3 156.7
19: Technical Provisions
2019 2018
Unearned Premiam Unearned Premiom
Claims Reserves Reserves Claims Reserves Reserves
(S in millions) G in millions)

Gross of reinsurance

At] January 3,787.2 793.8 3,823.5 856.6
Movement in.the year 6.5 (42.9) 55.7 (39.3)
Exchange adjustments 40.8 71 (92.0) (23.5)
At 31 Décémber 3834.5 758.0 3,787.2 793.8
Reinsurance

Atl January 2,366.7 141.8 2,276.2 126.4
Movement in the year 25.2 (12.0) 32.4 17.0
Exchange adjustments 173.5 11 58.1 d.6)
At 31 December 2,565.4 130.9 2,366.7 141.8
20: Commitments

The Company has no capital commitments authorised or contracted for at the year-end. Future minimum rentals payable
under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

For the Year Ended 31 December

2019 2018
G io millions)
Within one year 5.3 6.2
Between one and five years 28.3 6.8
After five years 20.3 41
$3.9 17.1

The expense in the year for operating leases amounts was $3.4 million (2018: $4.1 million).

55
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

24. Share Capital
The paid up capital is set out below.

For the Year Ended 31 December
2019 2018
(£ in millions) (S in millions) (¢£ in millions) ($ in millions)
Allotted, issued and fully paid up

410,000,000 (2018: 410,000,000) ordinary
shares of £1 each 410.0 614.9 410.0 614.9

The Company received capital contributions of $150m and $320m from its former immediate holding company, Aspen (UK)
Holdings Limited, on 23 March 2006 and 22 March 2011, respectively. The Company was sold to AEHL on 26 February
2015 through an intemal re-organisation to optimise the Company's regulatory structure.

The total funds available for distribution of $227.0m (2018: $230.1m) include the $470.0m (2018: $470.0m) capital
contribution reserve less the $243.0m (2018: $239.9m) profit and loss account.

22. Share Based Payments

In prior years AIHL, the Company's ultimate parent, has issued options, performance shares, phantom shares and restricted
share units under the 2003 and 2013 Share Incentive Plans. In addition, ATHL approved the 2008 Sharesave Scheme as part
of AIHL's Employee Share Purchase Pian.

Following the merger agreement between Apollo Global Management and Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited the Company
implemented anew iong-term incentive scheme, under which annual awards are split equally between Performance Units
and Exit Units. Performance Units vest after two years subject to the Aspen Group achieving predetermined growth in book
value per share targets. Exit Units vest upon change of control (Sale or IPO) and achieving predetermined multiplies of
‘invested ‘capital -retum targets. Both Performance Units aiid Exit Units are cash-baséd awards.

23. Related Parties Transactions

As ATHL is incorporated in Bermuda, the Company is exempt from disciosing related party transactions with fellow
subsidiaries which are also wholly owned by AIHL. During the period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary
course of business, with related parties which are not wholly owned by Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited. Transactions
entered into, and balances outstanding at 31 December 2019, are as follows:

Aspen Risk Management Limited
' The Company assumes premium from Aspen Risk Management Limited net of 15% agent's commission. As at 31 December
2019, the Company had a balance owed by Aspen Risk Management Limited of $6.1m (2018: $21.9m) in respect of net
premium.

Apotio Asset Management Europe PC LLP

Apollo's indirect subsidiary, Apollo Asset Management Europe PC LLP (“AAME”), serves as the investment manager for
the Company. It provides centralised asset management, investment advisory and. risk services for the portfolio of our
investments pursuant to the investment management agreements (“IMAs”) that have been entered into with AAME.

AAME is integrated into the Apollo investment platform and provides the Company with access to Apolio's investment
expertise and fully built infrastructure without the burden of incurring the development and maintenance costs of building
an in-house investment asset manager with the capabilities of Apollo/AAME.

AAME is registered in England and Wales and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United
Kingdom under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the rules promulgated thereunder for the primary purpose
of providing a centralised asset management and risk function to European clients in the financial services and insurance
sectors. AAME has necessary permissions to engage in certain specified regulated activities including providing investment
advice, undertaking discretionary investment management and arranging deals in relation to certain types of investment.

in April 2019, following the completion of the Merger, AAME was engaged as the investment advisor for the Company to
manage the assets of the Company. AAME is paid an annual investment management fee (the “Management Fee”) which
is based on a cost-plus structure. The “cost” is comprised of the direct and indirect fees, costs, expenses and other liabilities
arising in or otherwise connected with the services provided under the IMAs. The “ptus* component will be a mark-up in
‘an amount of up to 25% determined based on an applicable transfer pricing study. The Management Fee will be subject to
certain maximum threshold levels, including an annual fee cap of 15 bps of the total amount of investable assets. Affiliated
sub=advisors, including AMI and AMC, will also earn additional fees for subsadvisory services rendered.

56
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK Limited - Report and Accounts

During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognised IMA fees of $1.2 million, of which $0.7 million remains
payable to AAME at year end.

24; Ultimate Holding Company

The ultimate parent company as at 31 December 2019 was Highlands Holdings Limited incorporated in Bermuda: The largest
and smallest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by AIHL. The consolidated accounts
of this company are available to the public and may be obtained from The Company Secretary, Aspen Insurance Holdings
Limited, c/o 30 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M 3BD.

On February 15, 2619, Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited (“ATHL") completed its merger with Highiands Merger Sub, Ltd.
("Merger Sub"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Highlands Holding, Ltd. ("Parent"). Merger Sub merged with and into AIHL
(the Merger"), with ATHL continuing as the surviving company and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, a Bermuda
exempted company, is-an affiliate of certain investment funds managed by affiliates of Apollo Global Management, Inc., a
leading global investment manager (collectively with its subsidiaries, "Apollo").

25. Subsequent Events

In February 2020, the company ceased underwriting Marine & Energy Liability business. This was due to significant
deterioration on prior years and loss activity' in the current year in a market where pricing is not correcting sufficiently enough.

- This marketplace has not generated sustainable profit margins, and we are shifting our focus to areas where we believe there
is better opportunity to achieve our long-term profitability targets.

In addition, the company exited the Accident & Health line in March 2020 due to adverse claims development versus plan
and uncertain sustainable profitability of this type of business with high acquisition and operating costs.

On March 2, 2020, the Aspen Group, with AIUK as a named party entered into an adverse development reinsurance agreement
with Cavello Bay Reinsurance Limited ("Cavello"), a Bermuda insurance company and wholly owned subsidiary of Enstar
Group Limited. Under this agreement the Group will cede to Cavello, losses incurred on or prior to December 31, 2019 on
a diversified mix of property, liability and speciaity lines across the U.S., UK and Europe, in excess of $3.8 billion, up to
an aggregate limit of $4.6 billion (coverage of $0.8 billion). The reinsurance agreement also provides for $0.3 billion of
cover in excess of $4.8 billion, The consideration for this agreement is $0.8 billion plus interest at 3.75% per annum,

compounding daily, from the effective date January 1, 2020 to the closing date. The premium payable under this contract,
will be allocated across the various operating subsidiaries within the Aspen Group based on risk adjusted reserve run off
projections. Completion of the transaction is subject to Board approvals and satisfaction of various other closing conditions.

The transaction is expected to close in the first haif of 2626.

We continue to closely monitor developments related to the outbreak of COVID-19, also known as coronavirus, to assess
any potential impact on our business. Like many property and casualty (re)insurers, we have possible exposure to the
contingency market and cancellation losses stemming from the COVID-19 outbreak and could also face: COVID-19 related
claims from creditand surety tines and potential exposure from business i interruption. Whether the virus could trigger coverage
is dependent on specific policy language, terms and exclusions. There is a risk, however, that legislative, regulatory, judicial
or social influences may extend coverage beyond our intended contractual obligations or result in an increase in the frequency
or severity of claims beyond expected levels. The volatility in the financial markets resulting from the outbreak may also
‘impact our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio comprises primarily government and other fixed income securities
and we are not significantly exposed to equity markets. However, our corporate bond portfolio could be subject to valuation
risk as a result of movements in corporate spreads and default risk in the event of extended disruption to trade. In addition,

existing and potential future travel bans, preventative or government mandated closures of our offices or the offices of our
outsource providers may affect our ability to conduct our business. A prolonged period of commercial disruption, reduced
economic activity and other consequences of the outbreak could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial
condition or liquidity. It is not practicable to quantify the ultimate financial effect of the outbreak on the Company at this
stage.

The Board has undertaken an assessment to determine the impact of COVID-i9 on the company and its future viability.
This assessment has included a review of potential insurance and investment exposures under moderate and severe scenarios
and regular monitoring of current and projected solvency levels. The scenarios encompass different assumed durations of
the effects of the outbreak, credit spreads widening by upto 400-600 basis points, yields on the investment portfolio dropping
to nil for these different durations and an estimate of (reinsurance losses by reviewing various business lines where exposures
are likely (direct and indirectly) and quantifying the estimated loss exposures. This analysis was supplemented by a reverse

57
<Page End><Page Start>Aspen Insurance UK. Limited - Report and Accounts

stress test to determine the level of, and likelihood of, capital erosion that would result in an adverse impact on the Company's
ability to satisfy regulatory capital thresholds.

Additional sensitivities have been provided on page 43 to capture the impact of widening credit spreads and interest rate
movements on our fixed income portfolio at 31 March 2020 to support our ongoing assessment. ,

Based on our analysis and our latest estimate of the solvency position the Company's capital resources remain comfortably
in excess of the relevant regulatory capital thresholds and projected to do so under severe scenarios; the reverse stress test
indicates that the level at which an adverse impact would arise on the Company's ability to satisfy regulatory capital thresholds
is: sufficiently remote. Accordingly the Directors have concluded that although the impact from COVID-15 is likely to be
material it does not adversely affect the company's ability to continue as a going concern or reduce its capital and solvency
levels to below regulatory requirements. Our priority remains to support our staff and honour our client's needs.

Gn March 26, 2020, S&P downgraded the financiai strength and issuer credit ratings of the Company to“A ~ (Strong) from
“A” (Strong). The outlook assigned to this rating is stable. On April 1, 2020, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating

of “A” (Excellent) for ATUK but revised its outlook to negative from stable. The Company does not believe that these rating
actions will in any way compromise our ability to service the needs of our customers and trading partners or our obligations
to them. However, the downgrade may impair our ability to sell insurance policies and could materially and adversely affect
our competitive position in the insurance industry, future financial condition and operating results.

58
<Page End>