<Read from Text><Page Start>
Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2017

Positioned for growth,  
sharing and success

B
arclays PLC

 A
n

n
u

al R
eport 2017

<Page End><Page Start>
Barclays PLC Strategic Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Where we can find out more
About this report

Barclays PLC Annual Report was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 21 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by 
the Chairman.

Details on how to obtain a copy of the full Barclays PLC 
Annual Report 2017 can be found in the Shareholder 
information section.

Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures and forward-
looking statements
Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS 
performance measures included in this document provide 
valuable information to the readers of the financial 
statements. This document also contains certain 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 
21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 
1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. For further 
details on Notes, non-IFRS performance measures, and 
forward-looking statements used within this document, 
please see the back cover.

Report of the Auditor 
The Auditor's report on the full accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2017 was unqualified, and their statement 
under section 496 (whether the Strategic Report and the 
Directors' report are consistent with the accounts) of the 
Companies Act 2006 was unqualified.

Approach to non-financial performance reporting
We note the requirements under the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006, relating to the preparation 
of the Strategic Report which have been amended by 
the Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts 
and Non-Financial Reporting) Regulations 2016, which 
implements EU Directive 2014/95/EU (on non-financial 
and diversity information). As a result of these changes, 
we have integrated the information required for a 
Non-Financial Information Statement into the Strategic 
Report, thereby promoting cohesive reporting of 
non-financial matters.

Strategic 
Report
An overview of  
the business

Country 
Snapshot
Our tax 
contributions

Pillar 3 
Report
Our Risk profile 
and how we 
manage it

Barclays PLC 
Annual Report
Our Governance,  
our Risks and our 
Financials

Environmental 
Social 
Governance 
Report
Our shared growth 
ambition

You can learn about Barclays' strategy,  
our businesses and performance, approach  
to governance and risk online, where latest  
and archived Annual and Strategic Reports  
are available to view or download. 

For further information and a fuller 
understanding of the results and the 

state of affairs of the Group, please refer to the  
full Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 suite of 
documents at home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Strategic framework
02 Chairman's letter
04 Chief Executive's review 
06 Operating environment
08 Business structure
09 Our business model
10 Our strategy
12 Risk management
15 Key performance indicators

A review of our performance
23 Barclays UK

26 Personal Banking
27 Barclaycard Consumer UK
28 Wealth, Entrepreneurs and 

Business Banking

29 Barclays International
32 Corporate and Investment Bank
33 Consumer, Cards and Payments

35	 Head	Office	and	Group	Service	
Company

An overview of governance and  
financial performance
36 Our people and culture
38 Governance compliance

40 Viability statement

Governance
43 Governance contents
44 Directors' report
89 People
93 Remuneration report

Risk review
117 Risk review contents
119 Risk management
121 Material existing and emerging risks
127 Principal Risk management
138 Risk performance
197 Supervision and regulation

Financial review
205 Financial review contents
206 Key performance indicators
208 Consolidated summary income 

statement
209 Income statement commentary
210 Consolidated summary balance sheet
211 Balance sheet commentary
212 Analysis of results by business
223 Non-IFRS performance measures

Financial statements
227 Financial statements contents
234 Consolidated financial statements
241 Notes to the financial statements

323 Shareholder information

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 01

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

The Strategic Report
An overview of our 2017 performance,  
a focus on our strategic direction, and  
a review of the businesses underpinning  
our strategy.

The Detailed Report
Within the Annual Report, these disclosures  
inform of Barclays 2017 performance. The content  
meets, and where insightful, goes beyond minimal  
regulatory reporting standards.

<Page End><Page Start>
02 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Dear Fellow Shareholders
Chairman's letter

As I indicated last year, Barclays is one of the 
largest restructuring situations in bank history. 
While this was partly a consequence of the 
Global Financial Crisis, it was also partly 
a consequence of the doubling of the 
balance sheet and the seven-fold increase 
in derivatives across 2007 and 2008, 
immediately prior to the full onset of the 
Global Financial Crisis. 

This, together with the subsequent 
designation of the Group as globally systemic, 
and the consequent more than doubling of 
minimum regulatory capital ratios, meant the 
need substantially to re-capitalise the Group, 
and resulted in a considerable proportion 
of our portfolio becoming economically 
non-viable in the post-crisis environment.

The consequent recapitalisation involved the 
urgent raising of capital in 2008 (now the 
subject of charges by the Serious Fraud 
Office), a substantial reduction in capital 
and balance sheet usage, and the disposal 
of a considerable portion of our 
international network. 

Since the crisis, we have refocused the 
business, halving the balance sheet by 
£1trn and the staff by some 80,000, through 
the disposal of Non-Core assets. We are also 
creating a new UK ring-fenced bank from 
scratch, resolving and continuing to resolve 
multiple large legacy conduct matters, as well 
as preparing the Group for Brexit.

The enormous impact all of this has had on 
the business, the Board and management, is 
a sobering lesson. 

Over the past six years, reasonable underlying 
operating profits have been fully eroded in the 
process. Over this period, we saw £15.1bn in 
litigation and conduct charges, £2.4bn in bank 
levies, £10.1bn in losses from Non-Core, a 
£2.5bn loss from the sell down of Barclays 
Africa, and £7.1bn in taxes (at an average rate 
of 65%). All of this, totalling £35.6bn over the 
six years, resulted in an aggregate attributable 
loss of £1.0bn over the same period. Imagine 
if all the underlying profits had gone to 
shareholders and to investment in growth.

Clearly, shareholders would prefer we declared 
higher dividends, but it should be remembered 
over the same period, we paid £5bn in dividends 
out of negative attributable profits.

While a number of challenges remain, the launch of the ring-
fenced bank expected at the beginning of April this year largely 
draws a line on large-scale restructuring, and we look forward 
to a more traditional business pattern, including the return to 
a more normal dividend pattern.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 03

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

While the bulk of our historical challenges are 
behind us, we do continue to face some 
residual challenges. These include the 
historical residential mortgage backed 
securities matter in the US, the Serious Fraud 
Office prosecution in the UK as well as the 
consequence of Brexit. This said, depending 
on their scale and pacing, we believe we have 
the capacity to deal with them over time.

So, while a number of challenges remain, the 
launch of the ring-fenced bank Barclays UK 
expected at the beginning of April this 
year largely draws a line on large-scale 
restructuring. We look forward to a more 
traditional business pattern, including the 
return to a more normal dividend pattern, 
planned to begin with the 2018 financial year.

Turning to the 2017 financial year itself, this 
was another critical year for Barclays. Good 
progress was made on a significant number of 
fronts. The closure of the Non-Core business 
from the start of July marked a significant 
milestone. This business was formed in 2014 
in order to deliver the divestment of our 
non-strategic assets and businesses, releasing 
capital to support strategic growth in our Core 
business and to strengthen the Group's capital 
position. At its peak, the business comprised 
approximately £121bn of risk weighted assets 
(RWAs), representing 28% of the Group's total 
at the time and it has been a significant 
achievement to reduce this to just c.£23bn by 
the time of its closure. 

We also implemented the difficult decision to 
sell down our shareholding in Barclays Africa 
in 2017. The changing regulatory requirements 
for global banks resulted in higher hurdles, 
making the ownership of the profitable 
African business uneconomic. Therefore, 
we successfully sold down 33.7% of our 
remaining Barclays Africa Group Limited 
(BAGL) shareholding in the first half of the 
year. We now own a residual 14.9% of the 
issued share capital, consistent with 
regulatory commitments. 

2017 also saw us make significant progress in 
terms of creating the new ring-fenced bank as 
required by UK legislation. This has been an 
enormous undertaking as we are in effect 
creating a new bank comprising some 
24 million customers. We remain on track to 
set up this bank in the second quarter of 2018. 

As part of our structural reform requirements 
a Group Service Company has been 
successfully established which provides a 
wide range of operations, technology and 
functional services to the Group as a whole.

We continued with our Brexit preparations to 
ensure that Barclays can preserve our access 
to the EU markets for our customers and 
clients. Barclays Bank Ireland, where we have a 
banking license and have operated for nearly 
40 years, will provide us with a natural base 
from which we can continue to provide 
products and services which require an EU 
presence.

As shareholders are aware, during 2017 
Barclays disclosed a whistleblowing incident 
involving allegations made in connection with 
the hiring of a senior management team 
member. After an internal investigation, the 
Board determined that CEO Jes Staley 
believed, mistakenly but in good faith, that it 
was permissible to identify the author. A 
detailed announcement on the issue was 
made in April and the matter is now the 
subject of an external investigation.

Despite the very significant achievements and 
milestones passed during the year, our 
financial performance in 2017 highlights that 
further progress is required to deliver 
acceptable returns to our shareholders. Profit 
before tax was £3.5bn, and although this was 
a 10% increase on prior year, return on 
tangible equity was a negative 3.6% on a 
statutory basis. Excluding litigation and 
conduct, the loss on sale of our BAGL stake 
and a remeasurement of DTAs, largely from 
US tax reform, return on tangible equity 
was 5.6%.

Fortunately, the losses we experienced last 
year from Non-Core, as well as the costs of 
structural reform, are unlikely to be repeated 
going forward, and this, together with the 
profit improvement programme in the core 
business, should contribute towards 
improving returns.

Accordingly, the focus of management and 
the Board's attention is on performance, 
particularly that of the Corporate and 
Investment Bank in Barclays International. 
There, performance in Markets, and in 
particular Macro and Equities, was weak, driven 
by difficult market conditions. There have been 
significant management changes and action is 
being taken to improve profitability in this area.

Barclays Consumer, Cards and Payments saw 
profits decline by 22% but still produced a 
respectable 16.7% return on tangible equity. 
Barclays UK's profits were marginally up on 
the previous year generating 9.8% return on 
tangible equity.

Share price performance in 2017 was 
disappointing, with the share price falling 
from 223p to 203p over the calendar year. We 
are working to reverse this in 2018. Delivering 
quality earnings above the cost of equity as 
well as returning to higher dividend levels, are 
necessary to generate a meaningful recovery 
in the share price. This is the priority for 2018 
and beyond.

The ultimate resolution of legacy conduct and 
litigation issues will allow underlying profit 
to fall to the bottom line to the benefit of 
shareholders. This, together with the 
resolution of the whistleblowing issue, will 
also help remove some uncertainty which is 
overshadowing the Company. 

The past few years have been a really tough 
period for the Board and management, and 
bottom line results can obscure the real 
underlying progress that is being made. I 
would therefore like to thank the Board, the 
management team and all our staff for the 
enormous efforts they are making to secure 
our recovery. 

Finally, I would thank shareholders for their 
patience, and believe it will be rewarded. The 
situation is more complex and difficult than 
we had envisaged, and is taking longer than 
we hoped, but shareholders can rest assured 
that we will continue to strive to deliver the 
performance and value creation that their 
patience deserves.

John McFarlane
Chairman

<Page End><Page Start>
04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

We have strong foundations in place for delivering to 
stakeholders and society…

Chief Executive's review

The spirit, energy and professionalism that my 
colleagues from across Barclays have brought 
to this endeavour gives me great confidence 
in our future, both as Group CEO and as a 
shareholder. While there is still work to be 
done, the story of Barclays in 2017 has been 
one of considerable strategic progress.

On the 1st of June, we completed the sell down 
of our shareholding in Barclays Africa. At a 
stroke, this single act permitted accounting 
deconsolidation and regulatory proportional 
consolidation, reduced both cost and 
complexity, and improved our capital strength.

Our Group profit before tax 
is up by 10%, year on year.

In July, we closed Barclays' Non-Core unit, 
six months ahead of plan. In doing so, we 
eliminated some £95bn of risk weighted 
assets, sold more than 20 businesses, exited 
operations in a dozen countries, and reduced 
costs by over £2bn – all in just three years.

In September, we stood up the Group Service 
Company, where around 42,000 of our 80,000 
employees now work. Operational and 
technological strength is a key competitive 
advantage for any global bank today. The cost 
efficiencies and improvements in effectiveness 
realised from this strategic decision are already 
being felt right across the Group – and that is 
making a real and positive difference to our 
customers and clients' lives, every day.

By December, we had largely completed the 
work to build our UK ring-fenced bank, which 
we expect will be fully up and running by the 
time we meet at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). 

The Barclays of today is almost 
unrecognisable, compared with just a few 
years ago. The momentum we have built in 
successfully delivering on our plans so far, 
leaves me with a sense of confidence about 
our next task: delivering acceptable Group 
returns for you, our shareholders.

Our financial performance in 2017 shows that 
we are on our way to doing this. Our Group 
profit before tax is up by 10%, year on year, 
largely driven by a reduction in Non-Core 
losses. Group return on tangible equity, 
excluding litigation and conduct charges, the 
losses related to the sell down of BAGL and a 
one-off adverse impact from US tax reform, 
stood at 5.6% in 2017.

Our two businesses, Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, performed fairly well in the year 
despite challenging market conditions, and 
the Group is benefiting from the balance that 
the diversity of product, currency, geography, 
and business mix, gives us. In Barclays UK 
profitability held up, with good progress in 
mortgages, deposit growth, and mobile 
banking. Profits were down in Barclays 
International versus 2016, due to a poor 
performance in the Markets business of our 
Corporate and Investment Bank in difficult 
trading conditions for the industry. We 
have strong plans in place to address that 
underperformance in 2018. Our Consumer, 
Cards and Payments business continues to 
produce excellent levels of income, while 
managing risk effectively.

Perhaps most importantly of all, we enter 
2018 in a strong capital position. By the end 
of 2017, we were at a Common Equity Tier 1 
(CET1) ratio of 13.3%, within our end-state 
target range. 

Two years ago, we laid out our plan to build a Barclays  
that is fit for the future. To recast our business as a transatlantic 
consumer and wholesale bank, with global reach.

I am pleased to report that the significant task of  
restructuring this great institution was completed in 2017. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 05

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

This shows that Barclays can sustainably 
generate profits at a healthy rate, and our 
capacity to do so should increase over time 
as we grow our businesses. 

That is why in 2017 we set ourselves 
ambitious but attainable targets for Group 
returns of greater than 9% in 2019, and of 
greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation 
and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of 
around 13%.

A small number of significant legacy conduct 
issues remain, and we will need to resolve 
them in due course. 

Nevertheless, it is our intention to prioritise 
the return of capital to shareholders, 
beginning this year. We plan to pay a dividend 
for 2018 of six and a half pence, which is more 
than double the amount paid in 2016 and 
2017, and restores it to the level paid in 2015.

This is an important first step, but is still a 
fairly modest proportion of our anticipated 
earnings for Barclays. It is our firm intent, over 
time, to return a greater proportion of our 
earnings to shareholders, both through the 
annual dividend and in other ways. For 
example, it has been some 20 years since 
Barclays last used share buybacks as a means 
of returning value to investors, but we expect 
these to be an important part of the capital 
return mix going forward.

I have worked in banking for some 38 years, and 
I can say with conviction that the way Barclays 
does business, constantly seeking to earn the 
trust of every customer, client and community 
we serve, is truly extraordinary. 

In 2017, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of 
the Barclays Citizenship Awards – a year which 
saw over half of our colleagues take part 
in volunteering, fundraising or giving 
programmes. Among many examples of great 
contributions to the communities in which we 
operate, I was particularly proud of the work 
we have done to increase digital safety and 
to prevent the growing threat of fraud. Our 
education and awareness campaign has seen 
over 4.8 million people take action to protect 
themselves as a result. 

Supporting the ambitions of customers, 
clients, and communities is not just the right 
way to act, it also makes commercial sense. 
When the societies where we operate 
succeed, Barclays succeeds. That is why, for 
over three centuries, this great institution has 
risen to the challenges that our communities 
face, and played our part in meeting them. 

This is particularly true as our home country, 
the United Kingdom, faces an uncertain future 
as negotiations to leave the European Union 
unfold. Whatever may come, Barclays is here to 
stay, and here to help the 24 million customers 
and almost one million UK businesses, who put 
their trust in us, every day. 

In 2017, over half of our 
colleagues took part in 
volunteering, fundraising 
or giving programmes. 

It is the talent, ingenuity and dedication of our 
people, and the progress we have made in the 
past year, which gives me great confidence for 
our future. I look forward to discussing this 
future with you when we meet at our AGM 
in May.

James E. Staley
Group Chief Executive

Barclays Citizenship Awards
Going the extra mile to benefit society and Barclays is what our 
Shared Growth Ambition is all about. Our Citizenship Awards 
celebrate the extraordinary Barclays colleagues who do just that and 
play a positive role in society.

2017 marked the 20th anniversary of the awards and there were 
almost 500 nominations, celebrating the outstanding contributions 
of our employees to driving economic, environmental and 
social prosperity.

The awards were split into five categories that encompass Citizenship 
and our Shared Growth Ambition: access to financing, access to 
financial and digital empowerment, access to employment, colleagues 
in the community and the way we do business.

Whether it's creating commercial products with a positive societal 
impact, empowering customers with better financial and digital skills, 
helping people get into the world of work, improving the way we do 
business, or colleagues giving their time and skills to the causes 
they're passionate about, there is a huge variety of ways in which 
Barclays colleagues contributed to society in 2017.

Being a contributor is a very important part of the culture of Barclays. 
It says the right things about who we are. Barclays is a business built 
on our people and we are proud of the contributions that our 
extraordinary people make to further our Citizenship ambitions.

<Page End><Page Start>
06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

…in a constantly evolving environment that creates 
opportunity and risk

Operating environment

Global growth saw a modest recovery in 2017, 
principally driven by an upswing in Europe and 
Asia. However, the interest rate environment 
remained low, albeit with indications of Central 
Banks positioning for a tightening cycle. Notably, 
the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England 
commenced tightening actions, with an increase 
in their key policy rate as well as initiation of 
actions to wind-down quantitative easing 
programmes. The low interest rate environment 
combined with continued low market volatility, 
relatively weak consumer confidence and a 
slowing housing market in the UK continued to 
impact banking sector performance by making 
income generation more challenging.

The political environment remained uncertain 
globally throughout 2017 with a notable 
increase in geopolitical tensions. We remain 
vigilant to these risks and their potential impact 
on global trade and investment. In the UK, the 
General Election resulted in a hung Parliament 
while negotiations with the EU on post-Brexit 
arrangements continue, without full clarity on 
the nature of the UK's relationship with the EU 
immediately following its exit. In July, in response 
to the EU referendum outcome, Barclays 
announced its intention to use an existing 
subsidiary in Ireland as its European licensed 
entity from which to passport financial services 
across the EU, thereby continuing to serve its 
customers and clients in the EU post Brexit. 

The regulatory landscape impacting Barclays 
evolved through 2017 and will continue to do 
so in 2018. The banking industry in the UK has 
continued implementation of measures to 
meet structural reform requirements, which 
include the requirement to ring-fence certain 
activities. As part of these reforms, Barclays 
launched its Group Service Company in 
September 2017. The implementation of 
structural reform and other regulatory changes 
requires significant focus and we are seeking 
to minimise disruption to our customers and 
clients, while executing in accordance with 
regulatory timelines (as set out on page 204). 
Barclays' ring-fenced bank will be operational 
during the first half of 2018, subject to court 
and regulatory approvals. 

The banking industry  
in the UK has continued 
implementation of measures 
to meet structural reform 
requirements, which include 
the requirement to ring-fence 
certain activities. 

With effect from 1 January 2018, as part of the 
US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the federal corporate 
income tax rate has been reduced from 35% 
to 21%. Given the Group's substantial US 
operations, this tax rate cut materially impacted 
the measurement of Barclays' US deferred tax 
assets, however, it will also result in a material 
reduction to the Group's future effective tax 
rate. This Act also introduced the Base Erosion 
and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) which involves 
complex provisions with currently uncertain 
practical and technical application and which 
may reduce the future benefit of the lower 
statutory tax rate.

Detailed analysis of our tax can be 
found in the Annual Report, or in the 

Country by Country report, both found at 
home.barclays/annualreport

In addition, from 1 January 2018 the 
introduction of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, 
will see significant changes to the accounting 
for impairment and measurement of expected 
credit losses which we discuss further, along 
with other significant accounting policies on 
pages 241 to 246. 

Our operating environment continues to be 
influenced by rapid technological change, 
significantly impacting customer expectations 
and behaviour as well as leading to the ongoing 
review of established banking operating 
models. We are investing to position our 
business at the forefront of this evolving 
environment. New technology is transforming 
the way customers interact with their banks 
and continues to encourage new entrants into 
the market. We expect to see these trends 
accelerating in 2018 with the implementation 
of the Second Payment Services Directive 
(PSD2) and Open Banking, which will have a 
profound impact on the banking landscape by 
allowing customers to choose to enable third 
parties to access their data. Barclays is very 
supportive of the opportunities that Open 
Banking presents for those who design their 
propositions and experiences with customers 
at their heart. However, we are also aware of 
potential customer concerns regarding data 
security and we continue to work hard to 
ensure the safety of customer data.

As a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank with operations 
globally, Barclays is impacted by a wide range of macroeconomic, 
political, regulatory, accounting, technological and social 
developments. The evolving operating environment presents 
opportunities and risks which we continue to evaluate to ensure 
that we appropriately adapt our strategy and its delivery. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 07

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Our Corporate and Investment Bank clients are 
anticipating enhanced electronic capabilities as 
well as enhanced transparency through the 
new Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
and Markets in Financial Instruments 
Regulation (collectively referred to as MiFID II), 
as part of their operating environment. For 
example, recent advances in trading 
automation continue to change the operating 
landscape through increased experimentation 
with, and implementation of, solutions relying 
on machine learning, natural-language 
processing and predictive analytics. 

For further information on the changes 
in Supervision and Regulation of the 
Group, please see page 197.

We continue to invest in our digital and mobile 
capabilities to respond to these rapid changes, 
while maintaining a continued focus on the 
risks posed by fraud and social engineering and 
the importance of network defence, cyber risk, 
IT security and the appropriate management of 
our most valuable environments and high risk 
users in the face of growing cyber threats. In 
2017, we launched #digisafe, a UK-wide 
consumer engagement campaign to highlight 
the importance of digital safety, helping people 
to be more aware of the risks that exist in the 
digital world and how to be safer online.

During 2017 there was further activity to 
advance the financial sector's understanding of 
the potential financial, operational and strategic 
implications of climate change. Recognition of 
the commercial, reputational and regulatory 
implications of climate change are shaping 
the way businesses engage with the climate 
change agenda. At Barclays, we want to 
facilitate our stakeholders' access to financing 
that places green principles at its core. Please 
see the Case Study below for examples of how 
we are putting our beliefs into practice.

Developments in the external environment 
present both opportunities and risks. Without 
active risk management to address these 
external factors, our long-term goals could be 
adversely impacted. 

Our approach to risk management and 
material existing and emerging risks to 
the Group's future performance are 

outlined in the Risk review section on page 121.

Green bonds
Barclays' green bond is one of a number of innovative green 
products, launched in 2017, which reinforce Barclays' support for, 
and participation in, the transition to a sustainable and low carbon 
global economy, following the publication of Barclays' Green Bond 
Framework in September 2017.

In November 2017, Barclays successfully priced and issued a €500m 
green bond. This was a milestone for the UK market, being the first 
green bond issued by a UK bank using UK assets.

Green bonds are fixed income securities, designed to raise finance 
for assets that have positive environmental and climate benefits. 
The proceeds from Barclays' green bond have been allocated to the 
financing and refinancing of Barclays' residential mortgages on 
environmentally friendly homes in England and Wales.

Barclays is a signatory to the Green Bond Principles and an active 
lead manager of green bond issuances across jurisdictions, issuers 
and currencies within our investment bank. Barclays remains firmly 
committed to contributing to the growth of the green bond market, 
and has committed to a green bond investment target of £2bn in its 
Liquidity Portfolio.

<Page End><Page Start>
Barclays Bank PLC 
(Barclays International)

Barclays Services Limited 
(Group Service Company)

Barclays PLC

Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays UK – ring-fenced bank)

08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our enhanced structure empowers our business model…
Business structure

In March 2016, we announced our intention 
to operate through two principal business 
divisions: Barclays UK and Barclays 
International. As well as accelerating the 
delivery of our strategy, this change helped 
enable Barclays to fulfil the requirements of 
our UK regulators in regard to ring-fencing. 
Ring-fencing of essential retail banking 
services is one of the reforms introduced by 
the UK government to strengthen the UK 
financial system following the financial crisis 
that began in 2007. It requires the larger UK 
high street banks, including Barclays, to 
separate certain retail and smaller corporate 
banking activity and products, like savings 
accounts, current accounts and payments, 
from more complex, wholesale and 
investment banking activity and from certain 
activities outside of the UK and European 
Economic Area. This separation must be 
completed by 1 January 2019. 

Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC will operate 
alongside, but independently 
from one another. 

Both Barclays UK and Barclays International 
currently operate within the legal entity of 
Barclays Bank PLC. Barclays UK offers everyday 
products and services to retail and consumer 
customers and small to medium sized 
enterprises based in the UK, and Barclays 
International delivers products and services 
designed for our larger corporate, wholesale 
and international banking clients. During the 
first half of 2018, we will formally separate the 
Barclays UK division into a new legal entity 
– Barclays Bank UK PLC – which will become 
our UK ring-fenced bank, subject to court and 
regulatory approvals. 

In 2017, Barclays made significant progress  
reorganising the business to enable a sharper focus  
on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer and  
wholesale bank with global reach. 

Products and services designed for our larger 
corporate, wholesale and international banking 
clients will continue to be offered by Barclays 
International from within Barclays Bank PLC. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 
will operate alongside, but independently from 
one another as part of the Barclays Group 
under the listed entity, Barclays PLC. 

In September 2017, in preparation for the 
separation of the Barclays UK business into its 
separate legal entity, we created our Group 
Service Company, Barclays Services Limited, as 
a subsidiary of Barclays PLC. The Group Service 
Company will deliver critical infrastructure 
services to businesses within the Barclays 
Group and will enhance operational continuity 
for our business units, facilitating the execution 
of recovery and resolution plans in the event of 
financial difficulty. It will also become a centre 
of excellence for services required by the 
business, such as fraud management and 
cyber security, reducing duplication and 
promoting best practice across our businesses.

The new organisational structure, illustrated 
below, brings complementary businesses 
more closely together; creates an enhanced 
focus on our client proposition and offering 
across all target sectors; and, through the 
creation of the new Group Service Company, 
establishes a centre of service excellence 
that will drive efficiency and increase the 
Group's resilience. 

Further information on structural 
reform can be found on page 204. 
Illustrative unaudited pro forma 

financials for Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC are available at  
home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 09

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

We draw on the following  
to support our activities  
and deliver value to our 
stakeholders:

We aim to deliver a broad 
spectrum of value through  
the way we do business, 
including:

We aim to provide superior 
services to help customers and 
clients create, grow and protect 
wealth in a sustainable way:

We support our stakeholders 
via a commercially successful 
business that generates 
long-term sustainable returns:

■■ the strength and reputation of 
our brand – serving customers 
and clients for over 325 years

■■ a strong, well-funded and 
diversified balance sheet

■■ customer and client 
relationships built on trust

■■ a solid track record of 
successfully innovating for 
customers and clients

■■ our geographic focus: firmly 
anchored in the two financial 
centres of London and New 
York, with global reach

■■ the skills and expertise of our 
people and our shared values 
which inform the way we 
work and how we act

Barclays' customers and clients 
include: individuals, small and 
medium-sized businesses, large 
corporates and multinational 
companies, financial institutions 
and banks, institutional investors, 
funds, sovereign institutions and 
governments.

We offer:

■■ a safe place to save, invest and 
manage cash and payments

■■ innovative digital and 
technological capabilities

■■ funding for purchases and 
growth

■■ management of business and 
financial risks

■■ financial and business support

■■ our services generate revenue 
via net interest income and 
non-interest income, 
including fees and 
commissions as well as 
trading and investment 
income through our 
wholesale activities 

■■ we are a large financial 
institution and provide 
diversification by business 
line, geography and customer 

■■ we aim to capture the benefits 
of diversification through 
efficient delivery of cross-
group synergies

■■ superior service to enable 
customers and clients to 
achieve their ambitions

■■ challenging and fulfilling 
careers for our people in a 
values-driven organisation

■■ long-term sustainable returns 
for our investors

■■ we work together with 
regulators to help reduce risk 
in the industry and provide 
a more sustainable banking 
landscape over the long term

■■ employment and growth in 
the economies in which we 
operate

■■ engagement with 
governments and society in 
general to address societal 
issues and needs

…and creates value for our stakeholders, with economic 
benefits to society

Our business model

Barclays PLC Group operates via two clearly defined divisions 
– Barclays UK and Barclays International – with a diversified 
business model that we believe helps enhance our resilience 
to changes in the external environment. 

Our business model is aligned with our strategy of being  
a leading, diversified transatlantic bank with global reach.

Read more on our strategy  
on pages 10 to 11.

 For further information on our divisions,  
see: Barclays UK – pages 23 to 28 
Barclays International – pages 29 to 34.

The skills and trust  
in our staff helps us, 
through a range of 
initiatives, increase 
financial literacy. 

Our business services 
are tailored to help 
support SMEs and 
entrepreneurs, creating 
wealth.

Meeting the demands  
of our customers 
around sustainable 
investment drives 
sustainable value. 

Innovation through our 
products and services 
is helping increase 
access to finance and 
generating dividends 
and returns. 

<Page End><Page Start>
10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

We have positioned Barclays as a leading, diversified,  
transatlantic bank with global reach…

Our strategy

Building on our strong foundations 
The strategy of Barclays PLC Group is to build 
on our strength as a transatlantic consumer 
and wholesale bank, anchored in our two 
home markets of the UK and US, with global 
reach. Our two clearly defined divisions, 
Barclays UK and Barclays International, provide 
diversification to our business model. We 
believe that combining consumer and 
wholesale businesses, as well as accessing 
geographic diversification, provide real 
advantages to both the Group and our 
investors and help contribute to the delivery 
of more consistent and sustainable returns 
through the business cycle. Effective execution 
of our strategy of diversification should reduce 
volatility of income and earnings, generate 
higher returns through the cycle and improve 
resilience of the Group as a whole. 

Consistent with the objective of delivering 
long-term sustainable value for our 
stakeholders, we continue to pursue our 
Shared Growth Ambition – our approach to 
citizenship and sustainability. The objective 
is to make decisions and do business that 
provide our clients and customers, and the 
communities which we serve, access to a 
prosperous future.

 You can read more about our  
Shared Growth Ambition within our 
performance metrics on page 21.

Completion of the restructuring announced 
in March 2016
In 2017, we successfully delivered on two key 
components of the strategic priorities we 
announced in March 2016: 

■■ during the course of 2017, we completed 
the partial sale of our stake in BAGL 
resulting in a non-controlling, accounting 
deconsolidated position with a residual 
14.9% shareholding in BAGL 

■■ on 1 July we closed Barclays Non-Core, six 
months ahead of schedule, representing a 
watershed moment for the implementation 
of the Group's strategy.

These actions have significantly contributed 
to the simplification of the Group, helping to 
reduce drag on Group profitability and laying 
the foundations for Barclays to drive 
sustainable returns in its businesses.

As a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with  
global reach, our goal is to support our stakeholders  
via a commercially successful business that generates  
long-term sustainable returns. 

We reflect our strategy in a number of financial  
and non-financial measures.

Read more on our financial and  
non-financial measures on pages 15 to 22.

Delivering the Barclays of the future
Our focus is now on building the Barclays 
of the future, operating principally through 
Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
supported by the new Group Service 
Company. We are fully committed to our 
model as a diversified bank and will remain a 
well-diversified financial institution providing 
best-in-class products and services to our 
customers and clients, underpinned by world 
class operations. We believe that the Group 
and its entities are well positioned to deliver 
future growth and appropriate returns 
for shareholders. 

We will remain a well-
diversified financial institution 
providing best-in-class 
products and services to our 
customers and clients. 

We continue to invest in our technological and 
digital capabilities to facilitate delivery of our 
strategy. This is particularly relevant in Barclays 
UK where we already have a strong digital 
proposition, Barclays Mobile Banking. We have 
a clear strategy to use technology to deliver 
deeper and more meaningful customer 
relationships by transforming the way we 
interact with customers, leverage data analytics 
and take advantage of the opportunities 
presented by Open Banking. Delivering a truly 
customer-centric model is at the heart of 
Barclays UK's strategy.

Barclays International will continue to focus 
on markets and services where we have a 
competitive advantage, allocating capital 
where we see the ability to generate the most 
attractive risk-adjusted returns and investing 
where we see an opportunity to expand 
our market share. We see technology as a 
significant enabler for our strategy across 
the investment banking business, particularly 
in Markets business lines, and will continue 
to invest appropriately, alongside recruiting 
the best talent as we build the Barclays of 
the future. In July 2017, we announced our 
intention to use Barclays Bank Ireland, an 
existing licensed EU-based bank subsidiary, 
to continue passported activity after the 
UK's departure from the EU. 

Despite the uncertainty around the final 
outcome of the negotiations between the UK 
and EU, our planning is driven by a strategic 
intention to preserve EU market access for 
Barclays and our customers and clients, with 
a continuous seamless service.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 11

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Leveraging our geographic and business 
diversification, we see a significant opportunity 
to develop our payments capabilities across 
the Group. We aim to leverage our extensive 
experience and expertise developed through 
our leadership position in the UK to grow our 
market share in the US. In the Business to 
Business (B2B) space, we will continue to invest 
in our commercial payments capabilities, in 
order to meet the evolving needs of our 
customers, by leveraging innovative solutions 
and our data assets. On the consumer side, we 
are growing our mobile payment solutions in 
the UK. In the US, we see opportunity to build 
on our position of 9th largest credit card issuer 
by receivables, as our targeted partnership 
model drives continued growth. Furthermore, 
we are investing in our US consumer banking 
proposition, where we have a growing, 
own-brand and prime-focused digital 
banking offering. 

Our strategic execution as a diversified bank 
has been enhanced by the launch of the Group 
Service Company. The Group Service Company 
changes the way Barclays operates, enabling 
the delivery of world class services through a 
more standardised global operating model. We 
believe our Group Service Company will enable 
us to extract cross-Group cost synergies 
through simpler processes, enhanced controls, 
a better co-ordinated service provision and 
more effective management of investment in 
our technology and processes. The Group 
Service Company is a key component of 
Barclays' operating model.

We believe our Group Service 
Company will enable us to 
extract cross-group cost 
synergies.

We remain focused on resolving legacy 
conduct, litigation and regulatory matters 
and delivering enhanced controls
We aspire to be one of the world's most 
respected and well-regarded banks. We are 
working hard to resolve outstanding legacy 
issues in an appropriate time frame and 
manner, while continuing to strengthen our 
control environment. We put our customers 
and clients at the heart of everything we do 
and seek to strengthen the trust of our 
customers, clients and wider society. 

Contact centres –  
creating a seamless end to end customer 
experience in an omni-channel environment
We believe the Group Service Company will enable the delivery 
of world class services to our customers and clients while driving 
efficiency gains.

Our global contact centres teams within Barclays UK and Barclays 
International support over 60 million customer calls each year, 
across several geographies and business areas. Our colleagues are 
central to our customer experience and through the creation of the 
Group Service Company we have a unique platform to unlock 
opportunities across our shared colleague and technology 
propositions and through doing so, continue the transformation of 
our customer experience for Barclays UK and Barclays International. 

In the past, our technology supporting contact centres has been highly 
fragmented and we have operated with different processes with each 
business unit having their own contact centres, leading to more than 
30 different contact centre sites, utilising over 100 bespoke technology 
applications. Through the creation of the Group Service Company we 
aim to streamline our technology estate, identifying synergies to 
support a world class customer and colleague experience.

We will also continue to evolve the way we interact with customers 
through a highly integrated omni-channel framework, enabling 
customers to interact with Barclays through their channel of choice. 

We will continue to roll out and scale new capabilities throughout 
2018, supporting our customers choice in how they interact with us.

<Page End><Page Start>
12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

…with a structure and governance that enable us to 
manage risk… 

Risk management

The recent changes to the structure of the 
bank in anticipation of ring fencing, together 
with the closure of the Non-Core, and the 
partial sell down of our shareholding in BAGL 
mean that we have even more clarity on our 
strategic direction. The risks we undertake 
in delivering this strategy are now also 
well-defined. 

Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
At Barclays, risks are identified and managed 
in the business through the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF), which 
supports the CEO and Chief Risk Officer in 
embedding effective risk management and 
a strong risk culture. 

By applying mandate and 
scale limits, we can enable 
and control specific activities. 

The ERMF specifies the Principal Risks of the 
Group and the approach to managing them.

Risk Appetite 
Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are 
willing to take across the different risk types, 
taking into consideration varying levels of 
financial stress. Risk Appetite is key for our 
decision making process, including business 
planning, mergers and acquisitions, new 
product approvals and business change 
initiatives. By applying mandate and scale 
limits across legal entities and businesses, 
we can enable and control specific activities 
that may have material concentration.

The management of risk is embedded into 
each level of the business, with all colleagues 
being responsible for the understanding and 
managing of risks. This is done by specifying 
responsibilities according to the ‘Three Lines 
of Defence'. Each Line of Defence is overseen 
by the next, resulting in a strong design, 
implementation, remediation, monitoring and 
testing framework, with independence and 
robust governance.

Three Lines of Defence 
The First Line of Defence comprises the 
revenue generating and client facing areas, 
along with all associated support functions. 
The First Line identifies the risks, and sets the 
policies, standards and controls, within the 
criteria set by the Second Line of Defence.

The Second Line of Defence comprises Risk 
and Compliance employees and oversees 
the First Line, setting the limits, rules and 
constraints, consistent with the Risk Appetite 
of the firm.

The Third Line of Defence comprises Internal 
Audit employees, providing independent 
assurance to the Board and Executive 
Management.

The Legal function does not sit in any of the 
three lines, but supports them all and plays 
a role in overseeing Legal Risk. The Legal 
function is also subject to oversight from the 
Risk and Compliance functions with respect 
to the management of operational and 
conduct risks.

Together with a governance process using 
Business and Group level Risk Committees 
and Board level forums, the main Board of 
Barclays receives regular information in 
respect of the risk profile of the Group, and 
has ultimate responsibility for risk appetite 
and capital plans. 

Risk management post-ring fencing 
There are no significant changes to the ERMF 
proposed following ring-fencing. However, 
each of the Boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC will approve and 
implement the ERMF at an entity level, with 
any requirements specific to the relevant 
legal entity documented within the ERMF. 
Group-wide risk management principles 
will govern both Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC and their own legal 
entity governance processes around risk 
management, capital and liquidity plans.

We believe that our structure and governance 
will enable us to manage risk in changing 
economic, political and market environments.

Barclays is exposed to external risks as part of our  
ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part  
of our business model.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 13

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Principal Risks are overseen by a dedicated Second Line function
Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are managed

Credit Risk The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, 
customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, 
to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the 
whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral 
and other receivables.

Credit risk management teams set the Risk Appetite, 
monitoring risk against limits and help manage risk through 
the credit cycle.

Market Risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes 
in the value of the firm's assets and liabilities from 
fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited 
to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, 
commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities 
and asset correlations.

A range of complementary approaches to evaluate market 
risk including specific management and regulatory 
measures, are used to capture exposure to market risk. 
These are overseen and managed by dedicated market risk 
management teams who engage with the businesses 
to challenge the risk profile on a regular basis.

Treasury and  
Capital Risk

Liquidity Risk:  
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual 
or contingent obligations or that it does not have the 
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding 
and liquidity to support its assets.

Capital Risk:  
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or 
composition of capital to support its normal business 
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements 
under normal operating environments or stressed 
conditions (both actual and as defined for internal 
planning or regulatory testing purposes). This includes 
the risk from the firm's pension plans.

Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book:  
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income 
volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate 
exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

Treasury and capital risk is managed and monitored through 
a wide range of activities including: managing limits on a 
variety of on and off-balance sheet exposures; monitoring 
of market indicators for early signs of liquidity risk; recovery 
planning; capital planning and allocation; internal Group-
wide stress testing; management of foreign exchange and 
pension risk, and uses a range of metrics and sensitivity 
analysis to measure non-traded market risk.

Operational Risk The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed 
processes or systems, human factors or due to external 
events (e.g. fraud) where the root cause is not due to 
credit or market risks.

The Group assesses its operational risk and control 
environment across its businesses and functions with a view 
to maintaining an acceptable level of residual risk.

Model Risk The risk of the potential adverse consequences from 
financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect 
or misused model outputs and reports.

Models are validated and approved upon implementation 
and on an ongoing basis.

Reputation Risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event 
will reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by 
clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or 
the public.

Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a controlled 
culture within Barclays, with the objective of acting with 
integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built 
with customers and clients, colleagues and broader society.

Conduct Risk The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market 
integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate 
supply of financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

All colleagues are responsible for the management and 
mitigation of conduct risk. The Compliance function sets 
the minimum standards required, and provide oversight to 
monitor that these risks are effectively managed and 
escalated where appropriate.

Legal Risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages 
or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal 
obligations including regulatory or contractual 
requirements.

The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated 
global market and therefore is exposed to legal risks in the 
conduct of its business. The Group General Counsel and the 
Legal function support colleagues to manage legal risks.

<Page End><Page Start>
14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

…and help us focus on climate change
Risk management

Climate change and resource scarcity are 
acknowledged as two of the greatest global 
challenges facing society today. As a global 
institution, we support our clients and 
communities as they adopt measures to 
mitigate and adapt to climate change such as 
clean technologies and infrastructure resilience.

We acknowledge the validity of climate science 
and support the efforts of public and private 
stakeholders around the world aiming to limit 
global temperature rise to two degrees Celsius 
above pre-industrial levels. 

Barclays participated in the Financial Stability 
Board's Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which published 
its final recommendations in June 2017. 
Barclays endorsed the final report, and will 
work to implement the recommendations over 
the coming years. 

The principles laid out in the TCFD 
recommendations are an important step 
in providing the foundations from which 
companies, investors, banks and other 
market participants can move forward 
together to improve transparency and build 
better understanding of potential climate-
related risks and opportunities. 

This is the start of a longer-term process to 
enhance disclosures and improve understanding 
of potential material financial impacts. 

This is the start of a longer-
term process to enhance 
disclosures and improve 
understanding of potential 
material financial impacts. 

Governance 
On behalf of the Board, the Board Reputation 
Committee reviews and approves Barclays' 
overall Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) strategy, which includes the approach 
taken on climate change and emission 
targets. The Committee discussed the 
outcome of an externally facilitated review 
on Barclays alignment with the TCFD 
recommendations in 2017. See pages 69 to 
74 for the Board Reputation Committee 
report.

Strategy 
Significant financing requirements for energy 
transition and resilient infrastructure will 
necessitate access to the capital markets, bank 
debt and wider funding solutions, providing 
revenue pools that are projected to grow over 
time. Our approach is to focus on managing 
potential climate change related risks at a client 
and transactional level, and assess current and 
emerging opportunities across our product 
suite and geographical footprint. 

In the shorter term, Barclays sees immediate 
opportunities in Green Bonds and other 
financing solutions. We actively manage our 
own direct carbon footprint and are making 
good progress towards our target of 30% 
reduction by end 2018, against a 2015 baseline, 
reducing our emissions by 26.1% in 2017.

Managing climate risk and opportunity
Through a dedicated Environmental Risk 
Management team within the Credit Risk 
function, we are focused on managing both 
physical risks, for instance flood risk for our UK 
mortgage book, as well as potential transition 
risks if carbon intensive industries do not plan 
strategically for a smooth medium to long term 
transition to a low carbon economy. 

During 2017, we have significantly increased 
our focus on developing new climate 
opportunities, including the launch of a suite of 
industry-leading Green Products driven by the 
Green Banking Council and the issuance of 
Barclays inaugural Green Bond. Please see the 
Green Bonds case study on page 7.

 Please refer to the 2017 ESG Report for further information, found at 
home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 15

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

A holistic approach to measuring success
Key performance indicators

Financial performance metrics
The financial metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC 
Group financial targets, updated in Q317, and 
are reported quarterly as part of our financial 
results. Achieving our targets is consistent with 
our aim of generating long-term sustainable 
returns for the shareholders of 
Barclays PLC Group.

Strategic non-financial performance measures
Non-financial measures are an important 
element of how we evaluate our progress 
towards achieving our ambition of delivering a 
sustainable business for all our stakeholders. We 
focus on the impact we have on our customers 
and clients, colleagues, and the benefit we bring 
to society via our citizenship activity. These 
measures are underpinned by how we behave 
towards all our stakeholders, through our 
conduct and our culture. To assess our 
performance, progress towards delivering 
positive outcomes for our stakeholders is 
informed by a number of sources including 
internal dashboards, regular management 
reporting and external measures, to help provide 
a balanced review of performance. 

We have a range of policies and guidance 
that can support our key outcomes for our 
customers and clients, colleagues and 
citizenship activity. Performance against our 
strategic non-financial performance measures is 
one indicator of the effectiveness and outcome 
of aspects of certain policies and guidance. Our 
policies and guidance are refreshed regularly. For 
further details, please see our Customer and 
Client, Colleague and Citizenship sections. 

Our approach reflects the way in which management 
monitors the performance of the Group, allows for a  
holistic assessment and sets out our progress towards  
the strategic goals of the organisation. 

By incorporating a broad range of financial and  
non-financial measures, our framework is focused on 
achieving positive and sustainable outcomes for our  
diverse group of stakeholders, and influences incentive 
outcomes for Barclays' employees.

Read more on our remuneration framework in the Remuneration report  
pages 93 to 116.

Approach and governance:  
Performance measurement
In the 2016 Barclays Annual Report, we 
introduced our revised performance 
measurement framework to assess progress 
against our strategy, across our diverse 
stakeholder groups. The framework reflects a 
balance of key financial performance metrics 
and broader strategic non-financial measures.

Barclays PLC Group Performance Measurement Framework

Financial performance metrics
Group RoTE* >9% in 2019 >10% in 2020

CET1 ratio 150–200 bps above the end point regulatory minimum level

Group costs £13.6–£13.9bn in 2019† Targeting cost: income ratio below 60%

* excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13% 
† excluding litigation and conduct

Strategic non-financial performance measures 
Delivering positive outcomes for our stakeholders

Customer and Client
■■ Building trust with our customers 

and clients, such that they are 
happy to recommend us to others

■■ Successfully innovating 
and developing products and 
services that meet their needs

■■ Offering suitable products and 
services in an accessible way, 
ensuring excellent customer and 
client experience

Colleague
Promoting and maintaining:
■■ A diverse and inclusive workforce in 

which colleagues of all backgrounds 
are treated equally and have the 
opportunity to be successful and 
achieve their potential

■■ Engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ A positive conduct and values-

based environment

Citizenship
■■ Making decisions and doing 

business that provides our clients, 
customers, shareholders, 
colleagues and the communities 
which we serve with access to a 
prosperous future, through our 
Shared Growth Ambition

■■ Proactively managing the 
environmental and societal 
impacts of our business

Underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders through our conduct and culture

<Page End><Page Start>
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Key performance indicators

A holistic approach to measuring success

Approach and governance: Remuneration
Performance against our financial metrics and 
strategic non-financial performance measures 
is directly linked to executive remuneration, 
and also influences incentive outcomes for 
Barclays' employees more broadly. This 
approach supports us in our work to deliver 
positive outcomes for all our stakeholders. 
Please refer to the Remuneration Report on 
pages 93 to 116 for further information.



Financial performance metrics

Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
Achieving our financial targets, consistent 
with our aim of generating long-term 
sustainable returns for the shareholders of 
Barclays PLC Group.

How we measure success 
The financial performance metrics are aligned 
to Barclays PLC Group financial targets, 
updated in Q317:
■■ Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) of 

greater than 9% in 2019 and greater than 
10% in 2020, excluding litigation and 
conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%

■■ CET1 ratio of 150–200 bps above the end 
point regulatory minimum level

■■ Group costs, excluding litigation and 
conduct, of £13.6–13.9bn in 2019, and to 
have a target cost: income ratio below 60%.

RoTE measures our ability to generate 
acceptable returns for shareholders. It is 
calculated as profit after tax attributable to 
ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment 
for the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect 
of other equity instruments, as a proportion of 
average shareholders' equity excluding 
non-controlling interests and other equity 
instruments adjusted for the deduction of 
intangible assets and goodwill. 

This measure indicates the return generated 
by the management of the business based on 
shareholders' tangible equity. Achieving a 
target RoTE demonstrates the organisation's 
ability to execute its strategy and align 
management's interests with the 
shareholders'. RoTE lies at the heart of the 
Group's capital allocation and performance 
management process.

The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital 
strength and resilience of Barclays. The Group's 
capital management objective is to maximise 
shareholder value by prudently managing the 
level and mix of its capital. This is to ensure 
the Group and all of its subsidiaries are 
appropriately capitalised relative to their 
minimum regulatory and stressed capital 
requirements, and to support the Group's risk 
appetite, growth, and strategic options while 
seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition 
for the Group and its subsidiaries.

The ratio expresses Barclays' capital as a 
percentage of risk weighted assets (RWAs), as 
defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital 
Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV – an EU 
directive prescribing capital adequacy and 
liquidity requirements), and is part of the 
regulatory framework governing how banks 
and depository institutions are supervised.

Barclays views operating expenses as a key 
strategic area for banks; those which actively 
manage costs and control them effectively will 
gain a strong competitive advantage. 
Restructuring the cost base is a key execution 
priority for management and includes a 
review of all categories of discretionary 
spending and an analysis of how we can run 
the business to ensure that costs increase at a 
slower rate than income.

The cost: income ratio measures operating 
expenses as a percentage of total income and 
is used to assess the productivity of the 
business operations.

Updating the Return on Tangible Equity metric
Significant strategic progress was made in 
2017 with the closure of Non-Core and sell 
down of our stake in Barclays Africa, marking 
the completion of our restructuring. 

With the closure of Non-Core, we no longer 
have a Core and Non-Core distinction within 
the Group, and hence our prior target of 
Group RoTE to converge with Core RoTE no 
longer exists. The RoTE target has been 
updated to reflect our commitment to 
continuing to execute at pace against our plan 
and we are confident in asserting when 
Barclays will start to deliver the economic 
performance that the Group is capable of.

How we are doing
Group Return on Tangible Equity 
2017 reflected a number of one-off items 
including losses related to the sell down of 
BAGL of £2.5bn and a net charge of £0.9bn 
due to the remeasurement of US DTAs in 
Q417, as well as litigation and conduct of 
£1.2bn. These items drove a Group RoTE of 
negative 3.6% (2016: positive 3.6%). 
Excluding these material items, Group RoTE 
was 5.6%. 

How we are doing
Group Return on Tangible Equity

(3.6)% 2016 3.6%
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio

13.3% 2016 12.4%
Cost: income ratio

73% 2016 76%
Operating expenses*

£14.2bn 2016 £15.0bn
* excluding litigation and conduct

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 17

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio
The Group's CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio 
increased to 13.3% (2016: 12.4%) driven by a 
decrease in RWAs of £53bn to £313bn, which 
was partially offset by a reduction in CET1 
capital to £41.6bn (2016: £45.2bn). The 90bps 
improvement was driven by organic capital 
generation from continuing operations, the 
benefit of the proportional consolidation of 
BAGL and the rundown of Non-Core, partially 
offset by an adverse movement in reserves 
and the net impact of the remeasurement of 
US DTAs.

Operating expenses and cost: income ratio 
Group operating expenses were £15.5bn 
(2016: £16.3bn). Excluding litigation and 
conduct charges, Group operating expenses 
were £14.2bn (2016: £15.0bn), in line with 
2017 guidance. The reduction in operating 
expenses was primarily driven by lower 
Non-Core related operating expenses.

The Group cost: income ratio was 73% 
(2016: 76%). 

 For further information on the financial 
performance of the Group, please see 
page 47.

Strategic non-financial 
performance measures

How we are doing: summary
We assess progress towards the delivery 
of positive outcomes our customers and 
clients (page 18), colleagues (page 19), and 
citizenship activity (page 21), all underpinned 
by conduct and culture.

Areas of encouragement:
Customer and Client: In 2017, we continued to 
focus on delivering excellent customer and 
client experience, by offering products and 
services to meet their needs in an appropriate 
and accessible way. We are encouraged by the 
performance of our Relationship Net Promoter 
Scores (NPS®), while our client ranking and 
market share indicators remained broadly 
stable across many of our international 
business areas, which we believe reflect 
the relevance of our customer and client 
proposition. Digital solutions can enable a 
convenient and secure everyday banking 
experience for customers and clients, and we 
believe this is reflected in a 7% year on year 
increase in the number of Barclays UK 
customers using our digital services.

Colleague: We remain focused on increasing 
the diversity of our workforce and continuing 
to build an inclusive culture. We are proud 
of the progress we have made on the 
multicultural, multigenerational, LGBT and 
disability pillars, and we continue to receive 
external recognition for our diversity and 
inclusion work. We also continue to focus on 
the positive engagement of our workforce, 
and are encouraged to see a 3 percentage 
point improvement in our annual employee 
engagement survey score.

Citizenship: We are conscious of our wider 
stakeholders and the communities in which 
we operate and have performed well against 
our citizenship agenda, meeting our internal 
objectives on all six of our Shared Growth 
Ambition metrics. 

Areas of continued focus:
Customer and Client: Further transformation 
of our customer and client experience remains 
a key priority for Barclays, particularly as 
customer and client expectations continue to 
evolve rapidly. Although we are encouraged by 
the reductions in the number of complaints 
we received in 2017, this remains an ongoing 
area of focus for management and the Board.

Colleague: Our commitment to increasing 
female representation at all levels of Barclays 
remains firm. Although we have achieved an 
increase in the percentage of women at our 
Managing Director and Director levelsa, we 
recognise that there is still progress to be 
made regarding senior female representation. 
In addition, although we have made progress, 
we recognise there is still more to do to 
further reduce obstacles to efficiency and 
enable our colleagues to achieve excellent 
performance. We remain committed to driving 
the right culture throughout all levels of the 
organisation and continuing to enhance the 
effective management of Conduct Risk.

Citizenship: We have made good progress in 
delivering access to sustainable finance and 
developing new green products. We see 
further opportunity in this space and are 
working to develop broader sustainability and 
sensitive sector guidelines. In addition, we 
continue to focus on enhancing disclosures, 
particularly on climate change, and improving 
our Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) ratings and benchmark scores on an 
absolute and relative basis.

®Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc.

Note
a 2016 restated on an ex-Africa basis. 

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Key performance indicators

A holistic approach to measuring success

Customer and Client

Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
■■ building trust with our customers and 

clients, such that they are happy to 
recommend us to others

■■ successfully innovating and developing 
products and services that meet their needs

■■ offering suitable products and services in an 
accessible way, ensuring excellent customer 
and client experience.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include,  
but are not limited to:
■■ Net Promoter Scores (NPS)
■■ client rankings and market shares
■■ lending volumes provided to customers and 

clients
■■ digital engagement
■■ complaints performance
■■ conduct indicators.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement:
Net Promoter Scores (NPS)a
Improvements to our customer experience 
and customer value proposition, as well as our 
campaign to educate customers about how 
they can take steps to protect themselves 
from fraud, have all contributed to customers 
advocating our brand. Barclays Relationship 
NPS ended the year with an improved score 
of +14 (2016: +10), while Barclaycard UK 
Relationship NPS remained relatively flat year 
on year with a score of +9 (2016:+7). Our 
Barclaycard International business also 
continued to perform well on Relationship 
NPS, supported by a continued focus on 
customers and improvements in our products 
and digital experiences.

Client rankings and market shares
With the repositioning of the Corporate and 
Investment Bank largely completed in 2017, we 
believe the business is well-positioned to 
deliver for our clients in our two home markets. 
Our Corporate and Investment Bank achieved a 
6th place ranking by fee share (2016: 5th) in 
our UK and US home markets across M&A, 
equity and debt capital markets, and 
syndicated loan transactions, and we were 
highly encouraged by the 1st place ranking in 
the UK (Dealogic). In 2017 Barclays ranked 4th, 
based on Global Fixed Income market share 
(Greenwich Associates), unchanged from 2016. 
88% of our largest UK corporate clients 
considered the service they receive from 
Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, a 
2 percentage point decrease on 2016 
(Charterhouseb). We also processed more than 
a third of all card payments made in the UK.

Please refer to the Consumer, Cards and 
Payments section on page 33 for 
further information on our market 

presence across our international businesses.

Lending volumes provided to customers  
and clients
Barclays continues to be an important provider 
of financial services to UK businesses. We 
provided around £66bn of lending, down 6% 
on 2016, as we continued to exert high levels of 
discipline in capital allocation decisions to 
strengthen the long-term sustainability of the 
business for all our stakeholders. We continue 
to support UK SMEc customers in achieving 
their ambitions, with new lending of £2.8bn 
(2016: £2.5bn). We also extended or renewed 
mortgage facilities worth nearly £20bn (2016: 
nearly £19bn) to nearly 88,000 UK households. 
Our Mortgage business continued to focus on 
enhancing the customer experience, with 
Barclays winning eight awards in 2017d.

Digital engagement
Digital solutions can enable a convenient and 
secure everyday banking experience and over 
10 million customers and clients in the UK are 
using our digital services on a regular basis 
(2016: nearly 9.5m). Barclays Mobile Banking 
has now been chosen by 5.5 million customers 
as a ‘bank in their pocket', to access key services 
whenever and wherever they need them.

We are also mindful that while we have 
customers who fully embrace digital channels, 
we serve a wide customer base. We continue 
to work alongside communities to help our 
customers feel comfortable in the digital 
environment and we also launched our Digital 
Safety campaign which aims to heighten 
awareness and educate our customers on the 
risks posed by cyber crime. 

In 2017, Barclaycard US customers logged into 
our website and mobile apps over 230 million 
times, up 12% on 2016. Of our over eight 
million digitally active customers in Barclaycard 
US, 57% are mobile active and they expect 
instant, relevant and safe access to their most 
important banking needs including account 
management, rewards, and payments. In 2017, 
we continued to leverage consumer insights 
and feedback to build innovative experiences 
for our customers as evidenced by our 3rd 
place in the JD Power 2017 Mobile Banking 
Credit Card evaluation and the launch of our 
mobile-first Uber co-branded credit card. See 
our case study on Uber on page 34.

Areas of continued focus:
Complaints performance
In Barclays UK, we continue to focus on 
customer journeys and our underlying 
complaint volumes (Barclays UK, excluding 
PPI) reduced 13% year on year, however we 
have seen a small increase in PPI complaints 
(up 2% year on year) driven largely, we 
believe, by the FCA deadline announcement. 
Barclays UK complaint volumes, including PPI, 
were down 7% year on yeare. Barclays 
International complaints reduced by 19% year 
on year, largely driven by a strong 
performance in the Barclaycard US business, 
as we continued our focus on improving 
customer experience. Complaints reduction 
remains a priority across the Group and, 
despite improvement in 2017, we have more 
work to do, as can be seen from our position 
in the H1 2017 FCA complaints tables in the 
UKf. 

Notes
a NPS measures customer experience and facilitates benchmarking. It is widely used in banking and other industries. 

In this reporting year, the basis of Barclays Relationship NPS has been revised from a three-month rolling average to 
a 12-month rolling average, to reduce fluctuations in the data. On a three-month rolling average basis we reported 
Barclays Relationship NPS of +13 in 2016, which remained unchanged at +13 in 2017.

 Source: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2017. Adults interviewed: 8,568 Barclays main Current Account 
holders (Barclays Relationship NPS), and 4,754 Barclays main Credit Card holders (Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS).

b  Charterhouse Research Business Banking survey: 820 interviews with businesses in the UK, turning over £25m–£1bn 
year end 2017. Data is weighted by region and turnover to be representative of the UK business market. Share-based 
on bank named as main bank.

c SME Customers reflects our Business Banking customers. In 2016, we reported on UK SME lending across Barclays 
according to the UK Finance definition of SME (2016: just over £3.6bn. 2017: not available). Business Banking has 
now been established as part of Barclays UK and we believe that moving to report on this basis ensures we provide 
strategic clarity, while continuing to cover the majority of customers who would be classified as ‘SMEs'. 

d Best Lender for first-time buyers with family support (Moneywise); Best Lender for Larger loans (Moneywise); Best 
Online Lender (What Mortgage); Best Help to Buy Mortgage Lender – Equity Loan (What Mortgage); Best 
Intermediary Lender (Mortgage Finance Gazette); Best Overall Lender (Mortgage Finance Gazette); Best National 
Bank (Mortgage Finance Gazette); Best Large Loans Mortgage Lender (Your Mortgage).

e  In 2016 we reported complaint volumes for ‘Barclays UK' which reflected total UK FCA reportable complaints 
(including complaints which now sit within Barclays International). Following preparation for the formal separation 
of the Barclays UK division into a new legal entity we are now able to accurately split UK FCA Complaints between 
our Barclays UK and Barclays International divisions. 

f For further information on Barclays' complaint volumes, the FCA publishes firm-level complaints data on their 
website.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 19

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

We therefore remain focused on areas 
requiring our attention including, for example, 
the recent issues we have experienced with 
our Smart Investor proposition, and we are 
working to improve our service as a result of 
customer feedback.

In 2017, Barclaycard US 
customers logged into our 
website and mobile apps over 
230 million times.

Conduct indicators
Barclays has operated at the overall set 
tolerance for Conduct Risk throughout 2017. 
The tolerance is assessed by the business 
through Key Indicators which are aggregated 
and provide an overall rating which is reported 
to the Board Reputation Committee as part of 
the Conduct Dashboard. 

We remain focused on the continuous 
improvement being made to manage Conduct 
Risk effectively, with an emphasis on 
enhancing governance and management 
information to facilitate the identification of 
risks at earlier stages. For further information 
on the management and performance of 
Conduct Risk, please refer to the Risk Review 
section on page 117.

________________________________________

Policies and guidance can support delivery 
towards the key outcomes for our customer 
and clients. The Barclays Way contains 
statements on how we strive to deliver 
excellent customer service, and respect and 
protect the personal information we hold. It 
defines Conduct Risk outcomes as guiding 
principles and contains statements on privacy 
and data protection that colleagues must 
adhere to. The Barclays Way is available to 
view at: home.barclays/citizenship/
our-approach.html. Performance against our 
strategic non-financial performance measures 
for our customers and clients is one indicator 
of the effectiveness and outcome of certain 
policies and guidance. Policies which support 
our customer and client strategic non-
financial measures include aspects of our 
Customer Complaints Global Policy. 

Our customers and clients are at the heart 
of our purpose and strategy. For further 
information on our two divisions, Barclays UK 
and Barclays International, please refer to 
pages 23 to 34. 

Colleague

Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
Promoting and maintaining:
■■ a diverse and inclusive workforce in which 

employees of all backgrounds are treated 
equally and have the opportunity to be 
successful and achieve their potential

■■ engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ a positive conduct and values-based culture.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, but 
are not limited to:

■■ diversity and Inclusion statistics
■■ employee sustainable engagement survey 

scores
■■ conduct and culture measures.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement:
A diverse and inclusive workforce
We remain focused on increasing the diversity 
of our workforce and continuing to build an 
inclusive culture. In 2017, we have placed 
additional focus on upskilling our leadership 
through a range of initiatives including our 
Unconscious Bias Training, which has been 
delivered to over 10,000 leaders to date. 

We are proud of our achievements in 2017, 
across the following pillars of our global 
Diversity and Inclusion strategy:

LGBT: Our Spectrum Allies programme is 
growing, with an estimated over 8,000 
colleagues (2016: over 7,000), who have 
pledged to challenge homophobia, biphobia 
and transphobia and provide support to 
LGBT colleagues.

Disability: This year, alongside PwC, we have 
further scaled the ‘This is Me in the City' 
initiative along with the Lord Mayor of the 
City of London.

Multicultural: The number of apprentices who 
identify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 
was 19% in 2017 (2016: 30%), 8 percentage 
points above the national apprenticeship 
average.

Multigenerational: Since the Barclays Armed 
Forces Transition, Employment and 
Resettlement (AFTER) programme began in 
2010, the programme has assisted over 5,500 
veterans in employment transition and since 
2013 we have hired over 500 ex-military 
personnel (2016: nearly 400).

Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to 
colleagues at every life stage and encourages 
the integration of personal and professional 
responsibilities through smarter work 
patterns. The campaign is having a positive 
effect on colleague engagement, with 59% of 
colleagues actively working dynamically in 
2017 with an average overall sustainable 
engagement score of 83% among this group.

Gender: Our commitment to increasing 
female representation at all levels remains 
firm. Please see ‘Areas of continued focus' 
below for details on our progress.

Throughout 2017, our work was recognised 
externally, including: Stonewall recognising 
Barclays as one of only 12 Top Global 
Employers; the Human Rights Campaign 
awarding Barclays 100% on their corporate 
equality index; Working Families UK 
recognising Barclays as one of the top 10 
Employers for Working Families in 2017; and 
the City of London and the Social Mobility 
Commission acknowledging Barclays as a 
Top 50 Employer through the Social Mobility 
Employer Index. 

How we are doing
Barclays Relationship NPS

+14
2016: +10

Sustainable engagement 
of colleagues

78%
2016: 75%

Access to financing

£31.7bn
2016: £30.5bn

<Page End><Page Start>
20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Key performance indicators

A holistic approach to measuring success

Engaged and enabled colleagues
An engaged workforce is critical to the 
success and delivery of our strategy. Our 
principle measurement of employee 
engagement is through our employee opinion 
survey ‘Your View'. This year, sustainable 
engagement of our employees improved by 
3 percentage points to 78%, with the majority 
of key survey question results recording 
improvements compared to 2016, and the 
rest remaining stable. 

Areas of particular strength from the 
annualised ‘Your View' results include ‘I would 
recommend Barclays as a good place to work' 
(82% favourable, up 6 percentage points on 
2016), ‘Barclays is truly focused on achieving 
good customer and client outcomes (88% 
favourable, up 5 percentage points on 2016) 
and colleagues ‘believe strongly in the goals 
and objectives of Barclays' (90% favourable, 
up 3 percentage points on 2016). 

In addition, by supporting internal mobility 
across Barclays, we hope to successfully 
attract, retain and develop internal talent. 
In 2017, our rate of internal hiring was 40% 
(2016: 48%).

A positive conduct and values-based culture
In 2017, we focused on embedding the culture 
measurement framework we developed in 
2016, and using the insights to stimulate 
senior management discussion.

We have made good progress in continuing to 
embed the value of ‘Integrity', highlighted by 
results to the questions ‘it is safe to speak up' 
(83% favourable, up 2 percentage points on 
2016) and ‘I can report instances of dishonest 
or unethical practices to the appropriate level 
of authority without fear' (86% favourable, 
flat on 2016). ‘Stewardship' also remains a 
strongly embedded value with 89% of 
colleagues stating that they are proud of 
the contribution Barclays makes to the 
community and society (up 1 percentage 
point on 2016). ‘Service' and ‘Respect' remain 
strong with 90% of colleagues believing 
strongly in the goals and objectives of Barclays 
(up 3 percentage points on 2016) and 91% 
of colleagues agreeing that ‘leaders at 
Barclays support diversity in the workplace' 
(up 2 percentage points on 2016).

Areas of continued focus:
A diverse and inclusive workforcea
Our commitment to increasing female 
representation at all levels remains firm and we 
are mindful of the need to remain focused on 
improving our gender diversity with goals to 
improve the percentage of female Managing 
Directors and Directorsb to 26% by 2018 
(2017: 23%, a 1 percentage point improvement 
year on yearc); 33% female representation on 
our Board by 2020 (2017: 21%, 2016: 31%); and 
33% female representation among the Group 
Executive Committee and their direct reports 
(2017: 25%, flat year on year). Recognising the 
importance of strengthening our talent 
pipeline, we also have an ambition for 50% 
female graduate hires (2017: 40%, 2016: 39%). 

Engaged and enabled colleagues
Although it is pleasing to note that we have 
made progress across areas identified for 
opportunity, including ‘eliminating obstacles 
to efficiency' and ‘ensuring colleagues have 
the tools and resources to achieve excellent 
performance', there is always more to do. 
Enabling our employees to achieve excellence 
remains a key priority and throughout 2018 
new initiatives will be identified that will 
continue to improve the simplicity and 
efficiency of our tools, processes and systems.

A positive conduct and values-based culture
Within our culture measurement framework, 
which is anchored in our values, ‘Excellence' 
remains the biggest opportunity for 
improvement, as the ‘Enable' component 
within the colleague survey continues to be 
the lowest scoring measurement of 
sustainable engagement (64%, up 
4 percentage points on 2016). A set of 
improvement initiatives were identified in 
2017 and will continue in 2018 to drive 
progress in this area.

Barclays has operated at the overall set 
tolerance for Conduct Risk throughout 2017. 
The tolerance is assessed by the business 
through Key Indicators which are aggregated 
and provide an overall rating which is reported 
to the Board Reputation Committee as part of 
the Conduct Dashboard.

We continue to see improvements in conduct 
performance and are committed to continuing 
to drive the right culture throughout all levels 
of the organisation. Barclays will continue 
to enhance the effective management of 
Conduct Risk and appropriately consider the 
relevant tools, governance and management 
information in decision making processes.

________________________________________

Policies and guidance can support delivery 
towards the key outcomes for our colleagues. 
The Barclays Way contains statements on how 
we aim to create and promote a culture that is 
diverse and inclusive and create the positive 
and respectful environment all employees are 
entitled to enjoy. It also contains requirements 
for employees to: inform their line managers 
of changes in circumstances, including, for 
example, any conflict of interest or outside 
business interest; take reasonable care of their 
own and others' health and safety; and the 
responsibility to protect Barclays' assets. It 
also contains statements on: physical security; 
Group Resilience Policy and Standards; and 
communication with the media and public 
speaking appearances. Performance against 
our strategic non-financial performance 
measures for our colleagues is one indicator 
of the effectiveness and outcome of certain 
policies and guidance. Policies which support 
our colleague strategic non-financial 
measures include aspects of our Employee 
Opinion Survey Policy.

Please refer to the section on  
Our people and culture on page 36 and 
the People section on pages 89 to 92 

for further information on our progress.

Notes
a Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is required to report on the gender breakdown of our employees and ‘senior managers'. Of our global workforce of 79,900 (45,100 male, 

34,800 female), 555 were senior managers (401 male, 154 female), which include Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business 
units, certain senior Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of undertakings of the Group, but exclude individuals who sit as directors on the Board of the Company.  
The definition of senior managers within this disclosure has a narrower scope than the Managing Director and Director female representation data provided above. 

b Previously called female representation across ‘senior leadership'.
c Based on 2016 actual (24%) restated on an ex-Africa basis (22%). 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 21

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Citizenship

Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
■■ making decisions and doing business 

that provides our clients, customers, 
shareholders, colleagues and the 
communities which we serve with access to 
a prosperous future, through our Shared 
Growth Ambition

■■ proactively managing the environmental 
and societal impacts of our business.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, but 
are not limited to:
■■ delivery against our Shared Growth 

Ambition
■■ colleague engagement in citizenship 

activities
■■ external benchmarks and surveys.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement:
Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition 
We met our internal objectives on all six of 
our Shared Growth Ambition metrics. 
Performance was on-track against our internal 
milestones for three initiatives around ‘access 
to financing', ‘access to digital and financial 
empowerment' and ‘access to employment'. 
We also met or exceeded our 2017 annual 
targets for The Barclays Way training, carbon 
emissions reduction and payment of suppliers 
on time.

Access to financing
We continued to deliver financing solutions in 
areas including renewable energy, water and 
low carbon technologies; social infrastructure; 
development institutions; and small business 
financing. Barclays delivered £31.7bn in 
financing for specific social and environmental 
segments across our business lines 
(2016: £30.5bna). 

There has been significant momentum across 
the Barclays franchise in 2017, including the 
launch of a range of new Green Loans, Asset 
Finance and Deposit products; the issuance of 
Barclays inaugural Green Bond (see case study 
on page 7); an industry-first Multi-Impact 
Growth Fund for retail investors; a range of 
innovative transactions such as solar project 
bonds and green asset backed securities; and 
continued coverage from our Research teams 
on ESG and Sustainability themes. 

Access to financial and digital empowerment
Inclusive financial systems are key to 
achieving economic and societal progress, but 
there can be several barriers to access. We 
believe digital offerings can help break down 
these barriers. We helped empower around 
205,000 people in 2017 (2016: 249,000) 
through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial 
for those with a limited credit history; our 
Digital Eagles network, comprised of specially 
trained Barclays employees working to provide 
free technology support to customers 
and non-customers; and the continued 
development of learning platforms.

We work closely with partners in the free debt 
advice sector and collaborate on a number 
of projects including research and colleague 
training on financial vulnerability, and how 
we can best match customers to the advice 
service that suits them. 



Access to employment
Barclays is committed to helping people gain 
access to skills, and supporting entrepreneurs 
to drive job creation. We helped upskill over 
2.1 million people in 2017 (2016:1.7 million), 
driven by a range of regional employability 
partnerships and our flagship LifeSkills 
programme in the UK. 

Barclays delivered £31.7bn in 
financing for specific social 
and environmental segments. 

We held Accelerators for the second cohort of 
the ‘Unreasonable Impact' programme in 
partnership with Unreasonable Group, focused 
on scaling ventures that solve environmental 
and societal problems. 57 ventures have 
participated to date in programmes across the 
UK, US and Asia. 

Note
a Financing volume based on a use of proceeds framework. 2016 actuals have been restated from £21.1bn due to the inclusion of new qualifying categories such as national 

development banks. Further detail available in the ESG Report.

Supporting sustainable ventures
Barclays and the Unreasonable Group hosted the first Unreasonable 
Impact World Forum in 2017, bringing together 27 innovative 
companies from Asia, the US and Europe working to solve some of 
the world's most pressing problems. Held in London, the Forum 
included elevator pitches from entrepreneurs and panel sessions on 
themes such as scaling businesses and raising capital through 
impact investors. Over 400 representatives from a range of 
stakeholder groups, including investors, clients, NGOs and 
government agencies attended in person, with the event broadcast 
live on select social media channels globally.   

Unreasonable Impact is an innovative multi-year partnership between 
Barclays and Unreasonable Group to launch the world's first 
international network of accelerators focused on scaling-up 
entrepreneurial solutions that will help employ thousands worldwide 
while solving some of our most pressing societal challenges.

See https://unreasonableimpact.com/ for more information.

<Page End><Page Start>
22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Key performance indicators

A holistic approach to measuring success

Supporting sustainability-focused ventures 
to scale-up is one way in which Barclays is 
supporting the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), and we will continue to review 
and improve our core focus on raising access 
to financing for social and environmental 
segments, building skills and supporting 
empowerment. 

External benchmarks and surveys
Barclays' strategy and performance on a 
range of ESG factors is evaluated by external 
agencies on an annual basis. 

In 2017, we broadly maintained our 
performance scores in key ratings and indices. 
Although methodologies vary and continue to 
evolve, we believe there is an opportunity to 
continue to enhance our performance on an 
absolute and relative basis.

We maintained membership of both the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indexc series, where our 
score reduced by 1 percentage point to 83 
points against an industry average of 58 
points (2016: 61 points), and the FTSE4Good 
Index seriesd, with our absolute score up to 
4.3/5 (2016: 3.9/5) and our position relative 
to the banks sector improved to the 91st 
percentile (2016: 78th percentile). Barclays 
was rated ‘BBB' by MSCI ESG Ratingse (2016: 
‘BBB') and scored 61 points in Sustainalytics 
ESGf Ratings (2016: 62 points).

________________________________________

Policies and guidance can support delivery 
towards the key outcomes for citizenship. The 
Barclays Way contains statements on: respect 
for society – our Shared Growth Ambition; 
respect for human rights; respect for the 
environment and supporting the communities 
in which we operate.

Our activity is supported by policies and 
position statements on a range of material 
issues including: environmental sustainability; 
modern slavery; human rights; and anti-
bribery and anti-corruption. These are 
available at home.barclays/citizenship/
our-approach/policy-positions.html

Barclays' Group Statement on Human 
Rights aims to achieve a consistent and 
comprehensive approach to respecting 
human rights. We are committed to operating 
in accordance with the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights and we take account of 
other internationally accepted human rights 
standards. We respect and promote human 
rights through our employment policies and 
practices, through our supply chain and 
through the responsible provision of our 
products and services. 

The Barclays Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
(ABC) Policy and Standards and the Barclays 
Introducer Policy and Standard extend to all 
Barclays' business dealings globally. Barclays 
takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 
corruption and we are committed to 
conducting our global activities free from any 
form of bribery and corruption. We also 
expect the same from any third parties 
providing services for or on behalf of Barclays. 
Employees who fail to comply with the 
requirements of our policies and standards, 
may face disciplinary action, up to and 
including dismissal or termination of 
employment.

Performance against our strategic non-
financial performance measures for citizenship 
is one indicator of the effectiveness and 
outcome of certain policies and guidance. 
Policies which support our citizenship 
strategic non-financial measures include 
aspects of our policy statement on 
environmental sustainability. 

The full details of our policies and position 
statements are available at home.barclays/
citizenship/our-approach/policy-positions.
html

We provide additional information in 
the Environmental Social Governance 

(ESG) Report 2017 available at  
home.barclays/annualreport

Business conduct and environmental impact
The Barclays Way outlines the Purpose and 
Values which govern our way of working. 
99.9% of our colleagues completed annual 
training on The Barclays Way in 2017 
(2016: 99.6%) ahead of our target of 
above 97%.

We reduced carbon emissions by 26.1% 
against the 2015 baseline (2016: 14.3%a), 
making good progress towards our 30% 
target by 2018.

We also achieved 89% (2016: 88%) on-time 
payment by value to our suppliers 
(Target: 85%) and have published an updated 
Statement on Modern Slavery which includes 
additional information on the work we are 
doing with our clients and customers, as well 
as our suppliers. 

Please see the statement on our website 
home.barclays/citizenship/our-approach/
human-rights.html

Colleague engagement in citizenship activities
Colleague participation is essential to the 
success of our citizenship strategy. More 
than 50% of our colleagues participated in 
volunteering, fundraising or regular giving 
activity with 43,700 unique participants 
(2016: almost 44,000)b. We also have active 
internal Digital and LifeSkills, Environmental, 
Social Innovation and Intrapreneur networks.

Areas of continued focus:
Shared Growth Ambition
We will continue to focus on improving 
integration with our product suite and 
developing innovative sustainable financing 
solutions. We intend to focus on enhancing 
the impact of our employability programmes 
and providing compelling opportunities for 
our colleagues to participate in citizenship 
activities.

In addition, we are developing wider 
sustainability and sector guidelines for 
business activity in 2018, and will increase our 
contribution to policy initiatives and multi-
stakeholder partnerships.

Notes
a 2016 carbon reduction actuals have been restated due to improved billing data replacing 

estimates and restatements to travel emissions. Further detail available in the ESG Report.
b Unique participants measures colleague involvement in eligible volunteering, matched 

fundraising, regular giving initiatives. Data sourced from internal reporting systems including 
several manual sources. 

c Source: S&P Dow Jones; Sustainable Asset Management (SAM). 
d Source: FTSE Russell. 
e Source: MSCI ESG Inc. 
f Source: Sustainalytics Inc. 

<Page End><Page Start>
G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 23

Barclays UK

<Page End><Page Start>
24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our performance in the UK
Barclays UK

Overview of products, services and clients
Our future ring-fenced bank, Barclays UK, is a 
personal and business banking franchise, built 
around our customers' needs with innovation 
at its core. Our Personal and Premier Banking 
financial solutions help customers move 
forward by putting them at the heart of 
everything we do, connecting the different 
aspects of their lives to their financial lives, at 
a time that suits them. Barclaycard Consumer 
UK is a leading credit card provider, offering 
flexible borrowing and payment solutions, 
while delivering a market-leading customer 
experience. Wealth, Entrepreneurs and 
Business Banking serves a spectrum of 
clients, from those who manage their own 
investments to small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs) who need specialist 
advice, products and services. 

Market and environment in which the 
division operates
Against the background of a prolonged 
uncertain political and economic climate in 
the UK, we continue to deliver solid financial 
performance and provide innovative solutions 
for our customers and clients. The operating 
environment continues to be challenging 
including rapidly changing customer 
behaviours; increasing expectations of society 
and regulators; and significant technological 
disruption amid the threat of dis-aggregation 
from competitors and new entrants. However, 
we have a leading brand, a solid customer 
base and we remain well positioned in the 
current environment. 

With 30,000 colleagues and 24 million customers and clients, 
Barclays UK strives to help people move forward by providing 
personalised and perfect experiences, delivered by passionate 
colleagues. In 2017, we have made significant progress in 
establishing the ring-fenced bank, protecting our customers 
and clients and transforming our business through digitisation 
and automation.

Customers  
and Clients
■■ Individuals
■■ Businesses (SMEs)

Products  
and services
■■ Personal banking services
■■ Credit cards and 

transactional lending
■■ Investment products and 

services
■■ Business banking solutions

Value  
creation
■■ To our customers and 

clients – Building 
meaningful relationships to 
provide relevant financial 
solutions

■■ To society – Helping 
communities move forward

■■ To Barclays – Ring-fenced 
UK-focused bank with 
sustainable returns and 
prudent balance growth

Contribution  
to Group

£7.4bn 
Income

£1.7bn 
Profit before tax

9.8% 
RoTE

66% 
Cost: income ratio

£70.9bn 
Risk Weighted Assets

Barclays UK operational model

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 25

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

We are committed to ensuring 
continued growth of Barclays 
UK, and are cognisant of the 
rapid pace of technological 
change in today's environment.

Risks to the operating model
We continue to monitor leading indicators to 
identify trends in UK economic performance 
– in particular, trends caused by low interest 
rates, Brexit uncertainty, as well as from the 
impact of the increase in zero hour contracts. 
We aim to remain conservative and well 
positioned post-Brexit with stable trends in 
impairments supported by our strong risk 
management framework and oversight.

We are committed to ensuring continued 
growth of Barclays UK, and are cognisant of 
the rapid pace of technological change in 
today's environment. In order to continue to 
provide exciting and relevant solutions for our 
customers and remain competitive against 
new entrants, we are investing significantly 
in new technology, while simplifying and 
automating our existing platforms. 
Unrelenting growth and sophistication in 
organised crime remains a concern. In order 
to reduce the risk of cyber threat and protect 
our customers and clients, we continue to 
invest heavily in cyber risk, improving 
detection and response capability and 
implementing new resilience standards and 
testing approaches. 

Innovation at our core
Half a century after launching the world's first 
Automated Teller Machine – the ATM, we 
developed new ‘contactless cash' withdrawal 
options in 2017, fit for the digital age. In 
addition, we extended our cheque imaging pilot 
programme to other banks, allowing more 
than 243,000 customers the ability to pay in 
cheques instantly from wherever they are, 
24 hours a day. We also achieved an industry 
first with Insurance Instant Price – our first 
mobile insurance proposition, allowing 
instant price quotes from our providers to 
approximately one million customers. 

Key highlights this year in delivering 
our strategy 
This year we have built the Barclays UK 
ring-fenced bank and a diverse, highly-
experienced Board has been appointed by the 
Barclays UK Chairman. We have also migrated 
over 600,000 customers onto new sort codes 
with minimal customer impact.

Alongside this, we have made good progress 
building meaningful relationships with our 
24 million customers and significantly 
reducing the number of customer complaints 
– one of our key objectives for 2017 – by 
developing our colleagues and tackling the 
root causes. Interactive tools are now available 
to enable colleagues to more effectively own, 
manage and collaborate in the timely 
resolution of complaints. Reducing customer 
complaints further will continue to remain one 
of our top priorities for 2018. 

Over 10 million customers are 
now actively engaged with 
our digital services, including 
our award-winning Barclays 
Mobile Banking mobile app.

Delivering on shared growth
Our signature citizenship programme, 
LifeSkills, aims to inspire young people to 
develop the skills they need for a better future. 
In less than five years, it has reached over 
5.5 million young people and more than 
16,000 colleagues are now registered as 
LifeSkills volunteers. 

We expect 2018 to be a pivotal year for 
the financial services industry with the 
introduction of PSD2 and Open Banking 
but we believe Barclays UK has a significant 
opportunity to thrive in this environment. 
I am positive we will continue our lead in 
innovation in an Open Banking environment, 
as a new ring-fenced bank.

Ashok Vaswani
CEO, Barclays UK

Educating our customers in digital safety
In May 2017, we launched our UK-wide consumer engagement 
campaign to highlight the importance of digital safety and our role 
in helping people move forward in this digital age. 

The digital age has made our lives much easier in many ways.  
We now share information, shop online, pay bills, and keep in touch 
with each other in cyberspace. For many people, this is their way of 
life and they feel confident in navigating the digital world. However, 
having the confidence to be able to work and play in the digital age 
isn't the same as knowing how to keep safe while doing so. 

Our campaign resulted in over 4.8 million people taking action off 
the back of this outreach, resulting in our leadership role being 
recognised by Government ministers and the media.

<Page End><Page Start>
26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our performance in Personal Banking
Personal Banking

This year we created a single Product and 
Propositions team, bringing together our core 
product capabilities in Current Accounts, FX 
and Insurance, Consumer Lending, Mortgages 
and Savings with our newer Information 
Business and Mobile Payments products, 
as well as with the Community and Premier 
segments they serve. Through doing this, 
we are now able to more fully anticipate and 
deliver responses to our customers' needs and 
understand what they want in the moment 
they need it.

Moving Barclays UK forward
2017 has seen a continued focus on rewarding 
customer loyalty and creating advocates for 
every interaction. Over 930,000 customers now 
benefit from Blue Rewards, including Cashback. 
We landed our first 10% Cashback retail offers 
and have helped our customers earn over 
£5 million in savings since Cashback 
was launched.

Technology and data are such fundamental 
parts of how we serve customers and clients 
that it is vital that we all become more digitally 
savvy and help our customers to do the 
same. We started several years ago with the 
nationwide force of Digital Eagles, offering our 
customers and clients the help and resources 
to improve their digital skills; and continued 
this year with our Digital Safety campaign 
which aims to heighten awareness and 
educate our customers to be digitally safe.

Leveraging our data to benefit our customers 
and clients is a fundamental pillar of our 
strategy. We launched Local Insights, providing 
consumers, businesses and MPs key insights 
about their local area. We celebrated one year 
of our Barclays Identity Service, which allows 
consumers to access government services 
such as tax self-assessment online in a 
simplified, secure manner.

We launched a new online Track Savings 
Goals tool available through Barclays Finance 
Manager, which aims to support customers in 
setting and reaching their targets. 

Our Mortgages business has continued to 
focus on enhancing the customer experience 
this year, and has won eight awardsa in 2017. 
We've also continued to enhance our CloudIt 
offering, including allowing customers to 
access their mortgage statements online.

Helping our customers and colleagues
Barclays has made significant progress to 
enhance accessibility this year. Our high 
visibility and tactile debit cards aren't just 
useful for the visually impaired – many people 
struggle to read the numbers on their card – 
so we've offered a high contrast design option. 
We also launched a new larger audio 
PINsentry device to facilitate easier access to 
online banking for customers with dexterity 
and sight difficulties, enabling them to 
continue to do their banking independently. 
We have supported customers in vulnerable 
circumstances by automating complex 
processes such as registering a power 
of attorney. 

As well as delivering for our customers and 
clients, we need to ensure we deliver for our 
colleagues too. Our focus on investment in 
training, development and coaching as well as 
creating new ways to engage and support our 
colleagues continues. Our colleagues' needs 
are changing just as those of our customers 
are, and empowerment, dynamic and flexible 
working as well as improved technology 
have been a strong focus as we develop 
a world-class team who put the customer 
at the centre of everything they do.

“Barclays has always believed 
in me. The real support has 
come from my points of 
contact at the bank. It's these 
relationships that not only 
keep me banking with 
Barclays, but encourage me, 
without a shadow of a doubt, 
to recommend Barclays.” 

Kieran Miles, Premier Customer

Note:
a Best Lender for first-time buyers with family support 

(Moneywise); Best Lender for Larger loans 
(Moneywise); Best Online Lender (What Mortgage); 
Best Help to Buy Mortgage Lender – Equity Loan 
(What Mortgage); Best Intermediary Lender (Mortgage 
Finance Gazette); Best Overall Lender (Mortgage 
Finance Gazette); Best National Bank (Mortgage 
Finance Gazette); Best Large Loans Mortgage Lender 
(Your Mortgage).

Our Personal and Premier Banking team develop transparent 
and innovative solutions for our customers. We help customers 
move forward by putting them at the heart of everything we 
do, connecting the different aspects of their lives to their 
financial lives, at a time that suits them. This ranges from 
opening their first bank account to completing a mortgage on 
their dream home.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 27

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Our performance in Barclaycard Consumer UK
Barclaycard Consumer UK

Barclaycard Consumer UK offers a suite of 
products to our customers. Our Barclaycard 
Initial credit card is aimed at customers who 
are looking for a first credit card, or have a 
limited credit history, and helps them to build 
a credit profile. Our Barclaycard Platinum 
card offers promotional savings on balance 
transfers and purchases for borrowers with 
good credit history. Alternatively, shoppers 
can earn reward points everywhere they 
shop with our Barclaycard Freedom Rewards 
credit card. 

The UK credit market continues to experience 
considerable change, driven by new 
competitors, new technologies, economic 
and regulatory pressures, and changing 
consumer expectations and behaviour. We are 
responding by developing new products and 
services for our consumers. For example, this 
year we have further diversified our offers to 
new and existing customers with the launch 
of our Barclaycard Platinum travel card, which 
has no non-Sterling transaction fees on 
foreign spend and ATM withdrawals. 

This year also saw the 
integration of Barclaycard 
Consumer UK with our retail 
bank to build and grow more 
sustainable income while 
reducing complaints and 
creating better customer 
experience.

The integration of Barclaycard Consumer UK 
into Barclays UK has progressed with focus on 
enhancing the customer experience, as well 
as leveraging resources, technology and 
digital capabilities. 

Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit card provider, 
providing flexible borrowing and payment solutions to around 
10 million customers in the UK. We help people move forward, 
by enabling them to borrow and pay in a way that suits them. 
We are a responsible lender, providing credit based on credit 
history, ability to afford credit and our risk appetite, while 
delivering a market-leading customer experience.

We are continuously looking for ways to 
improve the customer experience we deliver
Throughout 2017 we focused on reducing 
customer complaints, maintained a stable 
Relationship NPS and reached new records on 
several transaction NPS, including Customer 
Service. We are pleased to have won a number 
of awards, acknowledging the market-leading 
service we offer our customers. We were 
recognised at the Top 50 Companies for 
Customer Service Awards, with two awards, 
Best Extra-Large Centre and Best Social 
Media Team. 

We support consumers by providing free 
credit scores, and personalised hints and tips 
on how to become fraud smart. Fraud-related 
activity is increasing and our research tells us 
that customers are increasingly concerned 
about how to protect themselves, and look to 
us to help provide support and information. 
We developed a digital interactive Fraud 
Fighter Tool to help customers understand 
where they are vulnerable and what they 
could do to better protect themselves, 
by giving them personalised fraud 
prevention tips. 

We also launched the Barclaycard Start Today 
campaign, to encourage people to start 
something new that they always wanted 
to do. So whether it is signing up to those 
pottery lessons or buying a bike, Barclaycard 
is there for our customers to help them 
move forward. 

0000 0000 0000 0000

<Page End><Page Start>
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our performance in Wealth, Entrepreneurs 
and Business Banking

Wealth, Entrepreneurs and Business Banking

Wealth and Investments overview
Wealth and Investments is formed of two 
businesses; Wealth Management and Smart 
Investor, both of which are supported by our 
in-house investment and asset management 
capabilities. Clients of our Wealth Management 
business benefit from holistic advice in 
banking, credit, wealth planning, and 
investments through their dedicated Wealth 
Manager and access to specialists across 
Wealth and Investments and the wider 
Barclays UK division. Despite significant 
investment in regulations required, Wealth 
Management has achieved a strong 
performance, and achieved year on year 
growth in client acquisitions.

Despite significant investment 
in regulations required, Wealth 
Management has achieved 
a strong performance, and 
achieved year on year growth 
in client acquisitions.

Smart Investor provides clients access to a wide 
range of investment products, educational 
resources to help build their confidence in 
investing, and tools to assist in planning for 
their future. The focus of the business this year 
has been launching Smart Investor and 
migrating over 225,000 existing Stockbrokers' 
clients onto the new platform. This allows our 
clients to leave the day-to-day management of 
their investments to our experts, thereby taking 
the complexity out of investing.

This year, we launched the Multi-Impact 
Growth Fund, the first impact-investing 
vehicle of its kind from a major UK bank, 
offering mainstream investors the opportunity 
to generate long-term capital growth while 
making a positive contribution to society. 

Business Banking overview
Our Business Banking unit provides coverage 
for clients across the UK at every stage of their 
business cycle in every industry, delivering 
distribution models which match clients' 
needs and sophistication. 

This year, we launched our SmartBusiness 
Dashboard and App and now have over 
12,000 clients benefiting from this unique 
client experience. With all their key business 
data in one handy place, our business clients 
are now spending more time within 
SmartBusiness and reaping the benefits.

The roll-out of Direct, our unique telephony 
relationship model for small business and 
start-up customers, has vastly increased the 
number of conversations and in-depth client 
reviews we are able to have, which directly 
benefits over 900,000 customers already on 
this new, interactive model. 

In 2017, we supported more clients, reduced 
account opening times, lent more money and 
generated more income than in 2016 through 
targeting sustainable, long-term growth. Our 
aim in 2018 is to empower our colleagues 
through continuing to invest in technology 
and services. 

Within Wealth, Entrepreneurs and Business Banking, Wealth 
and Investments serves a spectrum of clients, from those 
who manage their own investments and require an execution 
service, to those who require a dedicated and holistic service 
through our Wealth Management services. 

Business Banking offers specialist advice, products and 
services to over one million business clients across the UK, 
helping them to run and grow their business, from start-ups 
through to mid-sized businesses. 

Investing in change
The Multi-Impact Growth Fund invests primarily in specialist 
third-party funds which have been identified and blended by our 
experienced in-house fund and manager selection team. These 
funds have been chosen as best-in-class based on both their 
potential for strong financial returns and the consideration of their 
impact around key social and environmental issues such as climate 
or demographic changes. The Fund is the first Barclays product in 
the wider impact investing proposition being developed and is 
available to clients in Wealth Management and Smart Investor.

<Page End><Page Start>
G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 29

Barclays International

<Page End><Page Start>
30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our performance in International
Barclays International

Overview of products, services and clients
On the consumer side, within Barclaycard 
International, we provide consumers with 
credit cards, lending and deposit accounts. In 
Private Bank and Overseas Services, we 
provide banking, investment and wealth 
management services. For SMEs and 
corporates, we enable payment acceptance, 
commercial card payments and point-of-sale 
finance. Through our Corporate and 
Investment Bank, we serve our clients by 
providing advice, financing, trade and 
payment solutions, and raising capital. We 
support our institutional clients through sales 
and trading of securities. 

Our business model in Barclays International 
is dependent upon our client relationships, 
the services we provide to our clients and our 
capital – human, technological and financial. 
In 2017, Barclays International contributed 
68% to Group income with an RoTE of 6.6%, 
excluding the impact of the US deferred tax 
assets remeasurement.

Barclays International is the diversified transatlantic, wholesale 
and consumer bank within Barclays Bank PLC. Encompassing 
the Corporate and Investment Bank, Barclaycard International 
and Private Bank and Overseas Services businesses, our dual 
home markets in the UK and US anchor our business in the two 
most important global financial centres. 

Customers  
and Clients
■■ Corporates
■■ Financial institutions
■■ Institutional investors
■■ Governments
■■ Consumers
■■ High and Ultra-High  

Net Worth Individuals
■■ Family Offices

Products  
and services
■■ Financial advice
■■ Primary capital raising and 

capital markets execution
■■ Risk and liquidity 

management
■■ Lending
■■ Sales and trading
■■ International credit cards
■■ Consumer payments
■■ Banking
■■ Investments
■■ Wealth management

Value  
creation
■■ To our customers and 

clients – we create value by 
facilitating the transmission 
of money from providers to 
users of capital

■■ To society – we provide 
financing to a range of 
social and environmental 
segments

■■ To shareholders – as a 
diversified transatlantic, 
wholesale and consumer 
bank

Contribution  
to Group

£14.4bn 
Income

£3.3bn 
Profit before tax

3.4% 
RoTE (6.6% excl. the impact of the  
US deferred tax assets remeasurement)

69% 
Cost: income ratio

£210.3bn 
Risk Weighted Assets

Barclays International operational model

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 31

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Cyber crime had a hugely detrimental 
impact on the global economy in 2017, 
with unprecedented attacks in terms of their 
scale, impact and rate of spread. We have 
continued to invest heavily to ensure that 
our infrastructure retains industry-leading 
resilience to cyber crime.

The growth strategy within Barclays 
International will continue to be executed in 
a controlled, commercial manner within the 
ERMF framework.

Business highlights
Barclays International is focused on 
investments in talent, capital and technology. 
In 2017, we affirmed the executive 
management leadership team within BI. In our 
Markets division, a new leadership structure 
has enabled streamlining and simplification, 
with global heads across credit, equities, 
macro and distribution. 

We are focused on dynamically managing and 
allocating financial resources to businesses 
within Barclays International through 
optimisation of capital, leverage, risk weighted 
assets, funding and tax across all jurisdictions 
and legal entities. 

Barclays International continues to enhance 
its customer and client experiences through 
innovation. For example, in Barclaycard 
International, we launched a new core 
payment processing platform that provides, 
multi-currency and multi-geography 
settlement capabilities and enables all 
currencies in all territories to be processed 
on a single platform. We also launched an 
Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning tool 
to provide the latest advanced platforms and 
techniques for fraud detection and intelligent 
customer service automation.

Overall, 2017 was a milestone year for Barclays 
International. Together, with our colleagues 
across the globe, we have embarked on a 
number of initiatives and areas of growth as 
we strive to matter more to our clients, to 
grow our revenues, and deliver much improved 
sustainable returns to our shareholders.

Tim Throsby
President, Barclays International and  
Chief Executive Officer, Corporate and 
Investment Bank

Market and environment in which the 
division operates 
The economic markets in 2017 were 
characterised by a low volatility and low 
interest rate environment. With this benign 
backdrop, valuation gains in the equity 
markets prevailed throughout the year. 
Prospective and confirmed legislative and 
regulatory changes continued to influence 
and shape strategies of all market players. In 
the UK, consumer confidence hit a four-year 
low, amid Sterling depreciation and despite 
historically low unemployment. In the US, 
the labour market and consumer spending 
strengthened, with subdued wage growth.

Barclays International is 
focused on investments in 
talent, capital and technology. 

Barclays International has achieved significant 
milestones to meet structural reform 
regulations. Working closely with regulators 
and stakeholders, we are set up to serve our 
clients across the globe in alignment with 
regulatory policies and legislation. The 
newly-created divisional Board of Directors 
has been confirmed and has convened prior to 
formal Board meetings to ensure that we are 
set to operate within the Barclays governance 
framework upon the formalisation of 
structural reform. Significant entities within 
Barclays International, such as the US 
Intermediate Holding Company (IHC), are 
subject to stringent governance standards 
to ensure safety and soundness, particularly 
around capital, liquidity and risk management. 

Risks to the operating model
Geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty 
in some markets remain a risk, while the 
volume and reach of regulatory change 
continues to require significant attention.

We are making comprehensive plans for the 
UK's planned exit from the EU and we believe 
we will provide an uninterrupted service to 
our clients, consumers and other stakeholders 
during and after the transition. 

We continue to monitor growth in US 
consumer delinquencies having proactively 
reduced our exposure to middle market 
consumers earlier this year.

Advising on pan-European expansion
Asahi Group Holdings, the largest brewer in Japan, has targeted 
Europe as its next platform for growth in its drive to become a 
global beer industry leader. Having already established a presence in 
Italy, the UK and the Netherlands through the acquisition of brands 
such as Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime, Asahi engaged Barclays to 
assist in creating a truly pan-European franchise. 

In March 2017, with Barclays acting as Financial Adviser, Asahi 
successfully closed on its €7.3bn acquisition of AB InBev's business in 
the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Poland, Hungary and Romania.

Asahi turned to Barclays for this critical transaction due to our holistic 
capability, including a long-standing, global coverage relationship, 
leading brewing industry and M&A experience, deep insight into 
Central Europe and cross-border deal execution expertise.

<Page End><Page Start>
32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our performance in the Corporate and Investment Bank
Corporate and Investment Bank

Business update
Our markets businesses provide execution, 
prime brokerage and risk management 
services across the full range of asset classes 
including equity, fixed income and rates. 
With a new markets leadership team in place, 
we are highly focused on investments in 
technology to drive client successes and 
increase market share. For example, we 
migrated to a new digital platform and funded 
critical upgrades to our electronic trading 
platforms in 2017. We are focused on the 
standardisation and simplification of 
post-trade technologies with the backdrop of 
a strong regulatory and controls environment. 
In 2017, Barclays was named Best Bank for 
FX in London and Best Bank for GBP/USD 
in FX Week's annual awards. 

Our investment banking business provides 
long-term strategic advice on mergers and 
acquisitions, corporate finance and strategic 
risk management solutions, and equity and 
credit origination capabilities. In 2017, Barclays 
achieved its highest global fee share in three 
yearsa, and was the number one ranked bank 
in the UK for the first time since 2012a. 
Bolstered by strong mergers and acquisitions 
activity, we advised on numerous landmark 
deals to deliver for our clients. Our Leveraged 
Finance business reached its highest ever 
global fee share, ranking Barclays top four for 
the second consecutive yeara. Barclays was 
named 2017 Sterling Bond House of the Year 
by IFR magazine – with over 150 Sterling bond 

issues. Serving clients across a number of 
industries and segments, Barclays is proud 
to be a top three financier of capital for 
supranationals, sovereign and agency 
institutionsa, enabling the funding of critical 
infrastructure and helping to promote global 
economic growth and stability. 

With industry expertise and a history of 
innovation, our corporate banking business 
provides comprehensive banking, financing, 
trade and payment solutions to businesses 
across the UK. For example, Barclays has 
supported Pod Point, the UK's leading provider 
of electric vehicle charging since inception 
in 2009. Barclays' venture debt offering – 
enabled by our innovation finance product 
which is partly guaranteed by the European 
Investment Fund – has supported Pod Point to 
gain early access to capital so they can focus 
on developing their business. 

Finally, our research business delivers 
independent, thought-leading content across 
Equities, Credit, Macro and Quantitative 
Portfolio Strategy. The implementation of 
MiFID II has brought unprecedented change 
to the research industry and reinforced 
Barclays' commitment to providing clients 
with differentiated market insights, actionable 
trade ideas and thematic views delivered 
through publications, one-to-one analyst 
interactions, conferences and events.

The Corporate and Investment Bank offers wholesale  
banking products and services to corporate and institutional 
clients. The business is focused on serving our UK and US 
home markets, while supporting the global ambitions of our 
strategic clients. The Corporate and Investment Bank includes 
our markets, investment banking, corporate banking and 
research businesses.

Note
a Source: Dealogic.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 33

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Our performance in Consumer, Cards and Payments
Consumer, Cards and Payments

Barclaycard International 
Our Barclaycard International business 
operates in three divisions: Barclaycard US, 
Barclaycard Business Solutions and 
Barclaycard Germany.

Barclaycard US offers co-branded and branded 
credit cards in the US, along with consumer 
loans and online retail deposits. We are the 
ninth-largest credit card issuer in the market 
and this business has strengthened further in 
2017. We launched a new co-branded credit 
card with Uber, which featured a ground 
breaking integration into the Uber app, 
offering a simple, seamless and frictionless 
customer experience. Our relationship with 
existing partners strengthened further, with 
our JetBlue co-branded card being named the 
‘best no-fee loyalty airline card' for 2017 by 
MONEY magazine. 

Across all credit card products, Barclaycard US 
added over two million new accounts in 2017. 
In addition, our Barclays-branded consumer 
retail deposits now exceed $12.5bn.

Barclaycard Business Solutions provides 
merchant acquiring, payments integration and 
acceptance, payment gateway, commercial 
payments and point-of-sale consumer finance 
solutions in the UK. We are a leading provider 
in all our businesses and we are one of the 
largest payment acceptance providers in 
Europe. In 2017, we processed close to 
£250bn in payments through acquiring. 

In 2017, we processed close to 
£250bn in payments through 
acquiring. 

In 2017, we completed a four-year investment 
in a new core payment processing platform 
that provides omni-channel, multi-currency 
and multi-geography settlement capabilities 
to help us strengthen our merchant 
relationships and support their growth. 
Coinciding with the launch of Apple's iPhone 
8 and X, Barclays Partner Finance rolled out an 
in-store financing offer in the UK with 131,000 
applications received in-store since launch. 
We are also now a preferred partner for UK 
point-of-sale finance for Tesla via a digital 
in-store offering. Barclaycard Business 
Solutions' electronic funds transfer platform, 
known as PrecisionPay Bank Transfer, went 
live in Q3 with a successful launch, providing 
clients with the ability to pay their suppliers 
via bank transfer, which is funded by a 
commercial card.

Consumer, Cards and Payments includes Barclaycard 
International and the Private Bank and Overseas Services. 
Barclaycard International provides branded and co-branded 
consumer credit cards, lending and deposit accounts to our 
customers in the US and Germany, and payment solutions 
to our clients in the UK. Private Bank and Overseas Services 
provide banking, investment and wealth management services 
to over 160,000 clients, globally.

Barclaycard has been present in Germany for 
over a quarter of a century and now serves 
over 1.2 million cards and loans customers. 
We are the leading issuer of revolving credit 
cards in the country by outstanding balances. 
We also have a strongly growing instalment 
loans business as well as an online deposit 
product. In recognition of our focus on 
innovative products and features, all three 
Barclaycard open market products (New Visa, 
Gold and Platinum) received several best-in-
class recognitions from leading German 
business and finance magazines. Barclaycard 
Germany continues to drive exceptional 
customer satisfaction rankings, with the 
business placing in the top two for both cards 
and loans.

We also provide cards and lending in Norway, 
Sweden and Denmark via our EnterCard joint 
venture with Swedbank and we are a leading 
player in the region.

0
0
0
0
 
0
0
0
0
 
0
0
0
0
 
0
0
0
0

<Page End><Page Start>
34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Disrupting the US co-branded  
credit card market 
November 2017 marked the unveiling of the Uber Visa Card, 
recognised as one of the most rewarding ‘no annual fee' card 
programs in the US. 

As a pioneer in transportation and technology, Uber recognised 
Barclays' leadership in payments, innovation and partnerships when 
launching its first co-branded credit card. With an eye toward the 
future of mobility, technology and commerce, our companies built 
one of the most modern payment experiences in the US market. 

This cutting-edge payments program represents a ground-breaking 
approach to mobile app technology that meets the demands of 
today's on-the-go consumer. Using their smartphone, approved 
customers can apply, load their card into the Uber wallet, and start 
earning rewards in a matter of minutes, providing them value and 
experiences that are instant, integrated and rewarding. 

Private Bank and Overseas Services 
Private Bank and Overseas Services provides 
a diversified range of financial and wealth 
products and services to a broad base of 
clients, ranging from retail, high net worth and 
ultra high net worth, to family offices and 
corporates. With a significant global footprint, 
business operates across the UK, EMEA, India 
and Offshore Islands.

With a significant global 
footprint, the business 
operates across the UK, EMEA, 
India and Offshore Islands. 

Within the Private Bank, affluent clients at 
Barclays are supported by a dedicated Private 
Banker and a team of investment and wealth 
specialists. In addition, the Private Bank 
facilitates access to Barclays Corporate and 
Investment Bank products and services for 
ultra high net worth clients. The Overseas 
Services business delivers banking, treasury 
and investment solutions to core client 
segments through relationship led services 
and online channels.

With a focus on enhanced service delivery 
and product offerings, our Private Bank and 
Overseas Services business is poised for 
growth and scale. 

Our performance in Consumer, Cards and Payments
Consumer, Cards and Payments

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 35

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

Our service operations
Head Office and Group Service Company

The Group Service Company was ‘stood up' in 
September 2017 and is the hub through which 
we will deliver a wide range of operations, 
technology and functional services to the 
Barclays Group and the two legal entities of 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC. 
The purpose of the Group Service Company is 
to provide world-class services that are high 
quality, efficient and cost effective, to support 
our goal to be at the forefront of industry 
change and innovation. 

With significant commercial and competitive 
value, we believe the Group Service Company 
will radically reduce duplication of effort and 
cost, allowing us to give a more consistent 
and seamless experience to our colleagues, 
clients and customers. This will allow us to 
lead the way in next generation products and 
services in banking, to fully embrace the 
advantages that lie in automation, capitalise 
on our data and to innovate like a Fintech. 

We intend to unlock efficiencies and release 
capital for strategic investment, helping to 
drive the optimisation of Barclays as a whole 
and delivering value to our shareholders. 

The Head Office function contains the central operations  
of the Group. With the reintegration of remaining legacy assets  
and businesses in the second half of 2017, the function  
became a more material contributor to the Group results. 
Going forward, many of the Head Office functions will be 
within the Group Service Company.

The scale of the Group Service Company is 
substantial, accounting for around 42,000 
colleagues working globally. It delivers 
services across a wide range of technical and 
functional capabilities, including Compliance, 
Corporate Relations, Legal, Risk, Real Estate, 
Finance, Operations and Technology. The 
Group Service Company operates as a 
separate legal entity with its own Board of 
Directors, thereby promoting transparency 
and increased accountability.

The Group Service Company is also a major 
step in the delivery of our structural reform 
programme. It is Barclays' response to the 
ring-fencing requirements established by the 
UK Government following the financial crisis 
that began in 2007. Grouping our services 
together in this way will allow us to maintain 
operational continuity for our business units 
and facilitate the execution of our recovery 
and resolution plans in the event of financial 
difficulty, thereby strengthening the overall 
resilience of the Barclays Group. It also means 
we have a centre of excellence for services 
required by the business, such as fraud 
management and cyber security, where we 
can reduce duplication and benefit from 
implementing best practice across all of 
our businesses.

For further information on the timeline 
and progress of our structural reform 
programme, please see page 204.

The Head Office of Barclays includes the 
impact of treasury operations, which manage 
the capital, funding and liquidity position of 
the Group. 

In 2017, the Head Office became more 
significant for Barclays as it contained some 
of the costs associated with the legacy assets 
and businesses, which were reintegrated on 
1 July 2017. These factors contributed to a 
£834m loss before tax in 2017. 

From 1 April 2018, the treasury operations will 
be embedded into the respective legal entities 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC, and Barclays Bank 
PLC, as well as into Barclays PLC.

The Group Service Company 
has significant commercial 
and competitive value. 

Central operations are already operating 
through the Group Service Company – 
a separate legal entity, recharging all of its 
costs to the two legal entities.

<Page End><Page Start>
36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Our ongoing commitment to our people drives our success
Our people and culture

In 2016, we developed a culture measurement 
framework, anchored in our values to track 
and measure cultural progress across the 
Group. In 2017, we focused on embedding this 
framework, ensuring it is a key component of 
the non-financial metrics reviewed to assess 
the performance and culture of Barclays. 
Through this framework, and the results from 
our employee opinion survey ‘Your View', 
quarterly insights, key cultural metrics and 
performance indicators are produced, 
stimulating management discussions which 
result in actions and decisions to further 
promote and embed a conduct and values-
based culture.

We continue our ambition to 
become the most accessible, 
inclusive and sought after 
employer, where colleagues 
feel engaged and empowered 
to achieve their best in order 
to deliver the best for our 
customers and clients.

We continue our ambition to become the 
most accessible, inclusive and sought after 
employer, where colleagues feel engaged and 
empowered to achieve their best in order to 
deliver the best for our customers and clients. 
We are pleased that in 2017 the sustainable 
engagement of our employees improved to 
78% across the Group. 

This year colleagues were asked to select 
the phrases that they would use to describe 
the current culture at Barclays and we are 
encouraged that customer satisfaction, 
continuous improvement and growth are 
some of the top words selected. Focus 
continues in areas that we know are key to 
advancing cultural change, for example our 
Dynamic Working and employee well-being 
campaigns, as well as prioritising positive 
mental health awareness through our ‘This 
is Me' campaign. Our ongoing commitment 
towards increasing female representation at 
all levels across Barclays remains a core focus 
of our talent management and leadership 
succession processes and we recognise that 
our commitment to greater gender equality 
is integral to drive societal change in equality, 
diversity and inclusion. Further details on our 
gender diversity commitments and additional 
highlights from across our Diversity and 
Inclusion strategy can be found in the People 
section on pages 89 to 92. 

We continue to run Group CEO sponsored 
Enterprise Leaders' Summits, which seek 
to develop the next generation of enterprise 
leaders and strengthen a culture of 
collaboration among our leaders in order 
to deliver improved solutions and products 
for our customers and clients. The control 
functions rotational programme launched 
in 2016, which was expanded this year, 
recognises that future leaders in our 
businesses must have a strong awareness and 
understanding of the control environment. 
The programme provides colleagues the 
opportunity to work within a control function 
gaining valuable perspective. 

Fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success. 
By promoting respect, diversity and performance in the 
workplace we strive for excellence to deliver the best results for 
our customers and clients, taking pride in our achievements. 
We continue to be focused on the importance of embedding a 
conduct and values-based culture throughout the organisation 
and this is at the core of our strategy and processes. In 
recognising the significance of this commitment, conduct, culture 
and values remained one of our strategic priorities in 2017. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 37

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

We are committed to helping people succeed, 
whether entering the workplace for the first 
time or as an experienced professional. In 
support of the Barclays Shared Growth 
Ambition, and youth unemployment and 
social mobility, our apprenticeship programme 
has continued to provide opportunities 
for candidates from a broad range of 
backgrounds. Since the programme began 
we have hired over 3,400 apprentices, the 
majority with no prior qualifications or 
experience. We have continued to expand the 
programme, launching in 2017 the first ever 
Agriculture Higher Apprenticeship programme 
and Degree Apprenticeship in banking. 
Through the Barclays Armed Forces Transition, 
Employment and Resettlement (AFTER) 
programme we have assisted over 5,500 
veterans in employment transition, hired 
over 500 ex-military colleagues and donated 
over £4.25m to military charities to assist 
wounded and injured service personnel in 
employment transition. 

During 2017, external recognition has 
confirmed the sustained and global impact 
of our work. We are proud of the increased 
colleague engagement we are seeing across 
the organisation and both the external and 
internal differences that our values and culture 
are having and the change we can make to 
people's lives as a result, enabling success and 
giving them access to a future where they can 
thrive. Our drive to continue to embed a 
conduct and values-based culture shows the 
importance that we place on the positive and 
creative contributions of each and every one 
of our colleagues in order to serve customer 
and clients and to continue to build trust and 
respect in the profession of banking. 

Tristram Roberts
Group Human Resources Director

 For further information about the 
gender pay gap at Barclays, please 
see page 90.

Dynamic Working
Dynamic working is empowering our colleagues to work in a way 
that suits their lives and supports our business, to better serve our 
customers' and clients' needs.  Every stage of life brings new 
priorities, responsibilities and opportunities.  Having the flexibility 
when, where and how colleagues work can help them integrate their 
professional and personal lives and fulfil all their roles more easily.

Dynamic working is not flexi-time rebranded, it is not a policy, 
instead it is agile, attitudinal approach to meeting colleagues 
wide-ranging needs while having a positive impact on productivity, 
engagement and retention in the following ways: 

■■ colleagues who work dynamically score higher on engagement 
and job satisfaction with 87% saying they would recommend 
Barclays as a good place to work

■■ dynamic working provides agility to address the needs of clients 
and colleagues across the globe living in different time zones

■■ dynamic working is addressing the needs of a work force that 
spans five generations.

You can find out more on our Diversity and Inclusion 
activities reporting at:  

home.barclays/about-barclays/diversity-and-inclusion.html

<Page End><Page Start>
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Governance compliance

Effectiveness
The skills, knowledge and experience needed 
for an effective Board are recorded on a skills 
matrix, which is used by the Board 
Nominations Committee to inform Director 
recruitment, induction and ongoing 
development.

The composition of principal Board 
Committees meets the independence criteria 
of the Code and there is appropriate cross-
membership to further promote effectiveness.

11 of 14 Directors are independent non-
executive Directors (79%), while the 
Chairman was independent on appointment.

As at the date of this report, there are three 
female Directors (21%), compared to our 
target of 33% by 2020 which the Board 
remains committed to achieving. 

The Board Nominations Committee regularly 
considers Board and senior management 
succession plans.

Appointments to the Board are made 
following a formal, rigorous and transparent 
process, based on merit, taking into account 
the skills, experience and diversity needed  
on the Board in the context of Barclays' 
strategic direction.

All Directors are expected to commit sufficient 
time to fulfil their duties to Barclays. In 2017, 
Directors' attendance at scheduled Board 
meetings was 99% and across the scheduled 
Board Committee meetings was an average  
of 94%.

The Board assesses its effectiveness and that 
of its Committees and the individual Directors 
annually in a process that is externally 
facilitated by an independent third party.

Directors are subject to election or re-election 
each year by shareholders at the AGM.

Barclays' Charter of Expectations sets out 
responsibilities for providing the Board with 
accurate, timely and high-quality information 
necessary for it to fulfil its duties.

The Board, assisted by its Risk 
and Reputation Committees, 
conducts robust assessments 
of the principal risks facing 
Barclays.

Accountability
The Board is responsible for setting Barclays' 
risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is 
prepared to take in the context of achieving 
Barclays' strategic objectives.

Barclays' Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework is designed to identify and set 
minimum requirements in respect of the main 
risks to achieving the Barclays' strategic 
objectives and to provide reasonable 
assurance that internal controls are effective.

The Board, assisted by its Risk and Reputation 
Committees, conducts robust assessments of 
the principal risks facing Barclays, including 
those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. It 
reports on this in the annual viability 
statement on pages 40 and 41.

A snapshot of how Barclays complies with the  
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the Code) is set out below. For further information,  
see pages 80 to 84.

Leadership
There is clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman, who runs the Board, 
and the Group Chief Executive, who runs the 
Group's business. Individual roles on the Board 
and their responsibilities are set out in 
Barclays' Charter of Expectations.

The Senior Independent Director, Sir Gerry 
Grimstone, provides a sounding board for  
the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for  
the other Directors when necessary and  
is available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that have not been addressed 
through the normal channels.

The Board has set out Barclays' culture, values 
and behaviours in the Barclays Values and 
Purpose and The Barclays Way, which are 
embedded throughout the Group.

Directors are expected to provide rigorous and 
constructive challenge on matters that, owing 
to their strategic, financial or reputational 
implications or consequences, are considered 
significant to the Group.

<Page End><Page Start>
G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 39

The Directors also review the effectiveness of 
the Group's systems of internal control and 
risk management.

The Board has put in place processes to 
support the presentation to shareholders  
of fair, balanced and understandable 
information.

The Board Audit Committee, comprising 
independent non-executive Directors, 
oversees the effectiveness of Barclays'  
internal and external auditors.

Remuneration
The Board Remuneration Committee, 
comprising independent non-executive 
Directors, sets the overarching Group 
remuneration policy and approves the 
remuneration arrangements of the  
Chairman, the executive Directors and  
other senior executives.

The Board Remuneration Committee seeks  
the views of Barclays' major shareholders  
on remuneration matters. This engagement  
is meaningful and contributes directly to  
the decisions it makes.

Barclays' reward framework is simple  
and transparent and is designed to  
support and drive business strategy  
and long-term success.

To ensure alignment with shareholder 
interests, a significant part of performance-
related pay is delivered through  
Barclays shares.

Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to 
malus. Clawback also applies to any variable 
remuneration awarded to Material Risk Takers 
after 1 January 2015.

Engagement
The Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director, together with other Board 
representatives and the Company Secretary, 
hold meetings with investors focusing on 
corporate governance matters.

The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director present quarterly results briefings and 
the Group Finance Director holds briefings for 
equity and debt sell-side analysts.

The Board Remuneration 
Committee seeks the views of 
Barclays' major shareholders 
on remuneration matters. This 
engagement is meaningful 
and contributes directly to the 
decisions it makes.

Regular engagement with Barclays' brokers 
ensures that the Group's strategy and 
performance is being communicated 
effectively and provides a better 
understanding of investor views.

The Board receives feedback on investor 
relations activity, along with regular reports  
of changes in holdings of substantial 
shareholders and reports on share  
price movements.

A number of events are held throughout  
the year to maintain an open dialogue  
with investors, of which the AGM is the  
most important.

<Page End><Page Start>
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Governance compliance

Viability statement
While the financial statements and accounts 
have been prepared on a going concern basis, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code also 
requires the Directors to make a statement in 
the Annual Report regarding the viability of 
the Group, including explaining how they 
assessed the prospects of the Group, the 
period of time for which they have made  
the assessment and why they consider that 
period to be appropriate.
In light of the analysis summarised below, the 
Board has assessed the Group's viability and 
confirms that the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the next three years. This 
timeframe is used in management's Working 
Capital and Viability Report (WCR), prepared 
at February 2018. The availability of the WCR 
gives management and the Board sufficient 
visibility and confidence on the future 
operating environment for this time period. 
The three-year timeframe has also been 
chosen because:
■■ it is within the period covered by the 

Group's future projections of profitability, 
cash flows, capital requirements and  
capital resources;

■■ it is also within the period over which 
regulatory and internal stress testing is 
carried out; and

■■ it is representative of the continued level  
of regulatory change in the financial 
services industry. 

The Directors are satisfied that this period is 
sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment 
of viability to be made.

In making their assessment the Board has:
■■ carried out a regular and robust assessment 

of the Group's risk profile and material 
existing and emerging risks. Notable among 
these are risks which senior management 
believe could cause the Group's future 
results of operations or financial condition  
to differ materially from current expectations 
or could adversely impact the Group's ability 
to maintain minimum levels of regulatory 
capital, liquidity, funding and the minimum 
requirement for own funds and eligible  
liabilities (‘MREL') over the period of the 
assessment;

■■ reviewed how those risks are managed and 
controlled (further detail provided on pages 
127 to 137);

■■ considered the WCR which provides an 
assessment of forecast CET1, leverage ratio, 
Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as well as the 
build-up of MREL up to 2022;

■■ reviewed the Group's liquidity and funding 
profile, particularly Barclays' internal liquidity 
risk appetite (LRA) and regulatory liquidity 
coverage ratios;

■■ considered the Group's viability under 
specific internal and regulatory  
stress scenarios;

■■ considered the stability of the major markets 
in which it operates, the risks posed by the 
simplification of the business model and 
regulatory changes;

■■ considered the impacts of structural reform, 
including the creation of the UK ring-fenced 
bank;

■■ reviewed the draft statutory accounts and 
the in-depth disclosure of the financial 
performance of the Group;

■■ considered the Group's medium-term plan 
(MTP); and

■■ reviewed the legal, competition and 
regulatory matters set out in Note 29 to the 
financial statements on pages 285 to 293.

Risks faced by the Group's business, including 
in respect of conduct, capital and operational 
risk, are controlled and managed within the 
Group in line with the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework and the relevant 
Principal Risk Frameworks, through the  
Three Lines of Defence model. Executive 
management set a Risk Appetite for the Group, 
which is then approved by the Board. The 
second line set limits, within which the first 
line are required to operate. Management and 
the Board then oversee the associated Risk 
Profile. Internal Audit comprise the third line of 
defence and provide independent assurance to 
the Board and Executive Management over the 
effectiveness of governance, risk management 
and control over current, systemic and 
evolving risks. 

A full set of material risks to which the 
organisation is exposed can be found in the 
Material Existing and Emerging Risks on 
pages 121 to 126. Certain particular risks to 
viability identified by the Board are detailed 
below. These have been chosen on the basis 
of their ability to impact viability over the 
timeframe of the assessment but in some 
instances the risks exist beyond this 
timeframe. These particular risks include:

■■ legal proceedings, competition, regulatory 
and conduct matters giving rise to the 
potential risk of fines, loss of regulatory 
licences and permissions and other 
sanctions, as well as potential adverse 
impacts on our reputation with clients and 
customers and on investor confidence and/
or potentially resulting in impacts on capital, 
liquidity and funding;

■■ sudden shocks or geopolitical unrest in any 
of the major economies in which the Bank 
operates which could impact credit ratings, 
alter the behaviour of depositors and other 
counterparties and affect the ability of the 
firm to maintain appropriate capital and 
liquidity ratios; and

■■ evolving operational risks (notably cyber 
security and technology) and the ability  
to respond to the new and emergent 
technologies in a controlled fashion.

<Page End><Page Start>
G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 41

As a Transatlantic Consumer and Wholesale 
Bank with operations globally, Barclays is 
impacted in the longer term by a wide range 
of macroeconomic, political, regulatory  
and accounting, technological and social 
developments. The evolving operating 
environment presents opportunities and risks 
which we continue to evaluate and take steps 
to appropriately adapt our strategy and  
its delivery. 

In relation to regulatory change, the firm is 
implementing changes required by structural 
reform, the final stage of which will be the 
creation of the ring-fenced bank in Q2 2018.
The risk identification processes and link  
to business model will not differ post ring 
fencing and in assessing the viability of the 
organisation a standard and common process 
exists which is both top-down and bottom-up 
across each entity and the Group as a whole.

The Board has also considered the Group's 
viability under specific internal and regulatory 
stress scenarios.

The Board reviewed external regulatory stress 
test results which are designed to assess the 
resilience of banks to adverse economic 
developments and confirm that we have 
robust forward looking planning processes for 
the risks associated with our business profile. 

In addition, the latest internal stress test 
conducted in Q4 2017 considered the 
potential impacts of:

■■ a severe UK recession including falling 
property prices which fail to recover over 
the forecast horizon;

■■ a global downturn driven by decelerating 
growth in China and emerging markets; 
and

■■ a significant drop in commodity prices, 

all of which could result in, among other 
things, a loss of income or increased 
impairment. The stress test outcome for 
macro-economic tests shows our full 
financial performance over the horizon of  
the scenario and focuses on the CET1  
capital ratio.

Legal proceedings, competition, regulatory 
and conduct matters and remediation/
redress are also assessed as part of the stress 
testing process. Capital risk appetite and LRA 
are set at a level designed to enable the 
Group to withstand various stress scenarios. 
As part of this process management also 
identified actions, including cost reductions 
and withdrawal from lines of business, 
available to restore the Group to its desired 
capital flightpath under a range of operating 
environments.

The Group-wide stress testing framework 
also includes reverse stress testing techniques 
which aim to identify and analyse the 
circumstances under which the Group's 
business model would no longer be viable, 
leading to a significant change in business 
strategy and to identify appropriate 
mitigating actions. Examples include extreme 
macroeconomic downturn scenarios, 
or specific idiosyncratic events, covering 
operational risk (for example, cyber attack), 
adverse outcomes in legal proceedings, 
competition, regulatory and conduct matters 
and capital/liquidity events.

We use an inventory of models, non-modelled 
methods and quantitative procedures to 
support the stress test calculations and 
projections. These tools range from 
experienced management judgement through 
to sophisticated regression models based on 
historical data depending on the stress test 
application. The stress test evaluation process 
produces both gross impacts and the effect of 
mitigation including management actions 
which enables us to understand, monitor 
control and manage the risks identified 
effectively. The stress testing process is 
overseen by a detailed governance structure 
from the Board through to the three lines of 
defence within the business. Management is 
confident that the internal and external stress 
testing process is rigorous and considers a 
wide range of severe but plausible events, 
however, stress tests should not be assumed 
to be an exhaustive assessment of all possible 
hypothetical extreme or remote scenarios.

These internal and external stress tests 
informed the conclusions of the WCR. Based 
on current forecasts, incorporating key 
known regulatory changes to be enacted and 
having considered possible stress scenarios, 
the current liquidity and capital position of 
the Group continues to support the Board's 
assessment of the Group's viability.

For a statement as to our dividend policy 
please see page 85. 

The Board's assessment of the  
Group's viability over the next three 
years is subject to material existing  

and emerging risks highlighted on pages  
121 to 126.

<Page End><Page Start>
42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance

Directors' report Page
UK Corporate Governance Code ■■ Index to disclosures 44

Chairman's introduction 45

Who we are ■■ Board of Directors 47
■■ Group Executive Committee 49

What we did in 2017 ■■ Board report 50
■■ Board Audit Committee report 53
■■ Board Risk Committee report 64
■■ Board Reputation Committee report 69
■■ Board Nominations Committee report 75

How we comply 80

Other statutory information 85

People 89

Remuneration report 93

This section sets out our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting 
the delivery of our strategy, including reports from the Chairman and each of the Board 
Committee Chairmen. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 43

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

UK Corporate Governance Code – index to disclosures

Leadership Page
Every company should be headed by 
an effective board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of 
the company.

■■ Board of Directors 47
■■ Composition of the Board 81

There should be a clear division of 
responsibilities at the head of the company 
between the running of the board and the 
executive responsibility for the running of 
the company's business. No one individual 
should have unfettered powers of decision.

■■ Roles on the Board 80

The chairman is responsible for leadership 
of the board and ensuring its effectiveness 
on all aspects of its role.

■■ Roles on the Board 80

As part of their role as members of a unitary 
board, non-executive directors should 
constructively challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy.

■■ Roles on the Board 80

Effectiveness Page
The board and its committees should have 
the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
company to enable them to discharge their 
respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively.

■■ Board of Directors 47
■■ Board diversity 46

There should be a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors to the board.

■■ Appointment and re-election  
of Directors  77

All directors should be able to allocate 
sufficient time to the company to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively.

■■ Attendance 80
■■ Time commitment 81

All directors should receive an induction 
on joining the board and should regularly 
update and refresh their skills and 
knowledge.

■■ Induction  81
■■ Training and development                        82

The board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and  
of a quality appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties.

■■ Information provided to the Board 82

The board should undertake a formal 
and rigorous annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its committees 
and individual directors.

■■ Review of Board and Board Committee 
effectiveness 78

All directors should be submitted for 
re-election at regular intervals, subject 
to continued satisfactory performance.

■■ Composition of the Board 81
■■ Appointment and re-election  

of Directors 77

Accountability Page
The board should present a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of the 
company's position and prospects.

■■ Strategic Report 2
■■ Risk management 119
■■ Viability statement 40 

The board is responsible for determining 
the nature and extent of the principal risks 
it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. The board should maintain 
sound risk management and internal 
control systems.

■■ Risk management and  
internal control 82

The board should establish formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering 
how they should apply the corporate 
reporting, risk management and internal 
control principles, and for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the 
company's auditors.

■■ Board Audit Committee report 53
■■ Accountability  82

Remuneration Page
Executive directors' remuneration should 
be designed to promote the long-term 
success of the company. Performance-
related elements should be transparent, 
stretching and rigorously applied.

■■ Remuneration report 93

There should be a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on 
executive remuneration and for fixing 
the remuneration packages of individual 
directors. No director should be involved 
in deciding his or her own remuneration.

■■ Remuneration report 93

Relations with shareholders Page
There should be a dialogue with 
shareholders based on the mutual 
understanding of objectives. The board as 
a whole has responsibility for ensuring that 
a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders 
takes place.

■■ Stakeholder engagement 84

The board should use general meetings 
to communicate with investors and to 
encourage their participation.

■■ Stakeholder engagement 84

“The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent 
management that can deliver the long-term success of the company.” 
The UK Corporate Governance Code

The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) is not a rigid set of rules. It consists of principles (main and supporting) and provisions. 
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.

You can find our disclosures as follows:

44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
Welcome to my 2017 corporate governance 
report. In my Chairman's letter on page 2, I 
highlighted the significant milestones and 
achievements for Barclays in 2017, including 
the further sell-down of our interest in 
Barclays Africa Group Limited, the closure of 
Barclays Non-Core, progress towards the 
establishment of our ring-fenced bank in 2018 
as well as preparations for the UK's departure 
from the EU. Throughout this period of 
activity and change, your Board has been 
providing critical oversight of executive 
management to oversee the successful 
execution of the Group's long-term strategy. 

I firmly believe and have often said that the role 
of the Board is to create long-term, sustainable 
value for our shareholders. In order to do this, 
we must have a robust corporate governance 
framework, providing systems of checks and 
controls to ensure accountability and drive 
better decision-making, and also policies and 
practices which ensure that the Board and its 
Committees operate effectively. Part of this is 
creating an environment which encourages a 
constructive relationship between the Board 
and executive management to enable an 
appropriate level of debate, challenge and 
support in the decision-making process. I am 
pleased to report that in 2017 your Board and 
executive management continued to 
demonstrate this dynamic as we worked 
together in executing strategy.

The impending changes to our Group 
corporate structure following structural 
reform has been a significant area of focus for 
the Board in 2017 and no doubt will continue 
to be at the forefront of our minds in 2018. 
After approving for appointment Sir Gerry 
Grimstone as the Chairman of Barclays 
International and Sir Ian Cheshire as the 
Chairman of Barclays UK, we worked closely 
with both of them to recruit high quality 
candidates to build the boards of those two 
entities. Our aim is to ensure that corporate 
governance within Barclays is in line with best 
practice for FTSE100 companies and as a 
Board we will work hard to ensure that our 
governance framework is always providing the 

strong foundation needed for effective 
management of the Group.

Board changes in 2017
Through the Board Nominations Committee, 
we are always considering whether we have 
the right mix of individuals on the Board, 
providing an appropriate balance and diversity 
of skills, experience and perspectives. It is 
important that it is inherent within the 
composition of the Board that a broad range 
of perspectives and views are able to be 
provided which are representative of our 
customers, clients and employees as the 
foundations of our Bank. In addition, we are 
also regularly thinking about Board succession 
planning and ensuring we have a strong 
pipeline of directors to steer the Group over 
the long term. With this in mind, we brought 
on three new non-executive Directors in 2017: 
Sir Ian Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike 
Turner CBE, all of whom have significant 
board-level experience and bring specific 
sector and technical expertise to your Board. 
During 2017, Diane de Saint Victor and Steve 
Thieke, both non-executive Directors, left the 
Board and I thank them on behalf of the Board 
for their contributions and service.

With the changes in 2017, our current female 
representation on the Board sits at 21%. Last 
year I reported that we set ourselves a Board 
diversity target of having 33% female 
representation on the Board by 2020. We are 
conscious that our gender diversity balance 
on the Board has fallen from 2016, but remain 
committed to achieving the target that we 
have set. Ensuring diversity of gender, as well 
as diversity in its other forms such as ethnicity, 
is built into our governance processes around 
Board composition and succession planning, 
and you can read more about this in the Board 
Nominations Committee report on pages 75 
to 79. 

Chairman's introduction

Throughout this period of activity and change, your 
Board has been providing critical oversight of executive 
management to oversee the successful execution of the 
Group's long-term strategy.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 45

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Chairman's introduction

Conduct, culture and values
The Board also actively supports diversity 
throughout the Group. To attract and retain 
the best talent, we need to create an 
environment in which colleagues can thrive, 
develop and achieve their ambitions. I am 
very proud of the initiatives that we have at 
Barclays to encourage diversity and support 
inclusion among colleagues. Most recently, 
we launched a campaign aimed at increasing 
mental health awareness as Barclays aims 
to become a ‘mental health confident' 
organisation, and we are delighted that 
our Chief Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, is the 
Executive sponsor for ‘Be Well', our well-being 
initiative. Everything we do at Barclays is 
underpinned by the Barclays Values and 
Purpose, and we must act with respect, 
transparency and integrity in our interactions 
with stakeholders and with each other to 
create the right culture, and encourage the 
right behaviours by colleagues, across the 
Group. With that framework, we can build 
and maintain the trust and confidence of 
our stakeholders and the market. 

An important part of our strategy in relation to 
cultural progress and embedding our Barclays 
Values is our citizenship strategy, the Shared 
Growth Ambition, where our long-term aim is 
to create and grow a collection of products, 
services and partnerships that improve the 
lives of people in the communities that we 
serve. In 2017 we launched Barclays' ‘green 
bonds' as part of our support for the transition 
to a sustainable and low carbon economy. 
This was the first green bond issued by a UK 
bank using UK assets, and you can read more 
about this on page 7. Initiatives like this not 
only enable us to contribute meaningfully to 
society, but also enable us to better 
understand the environment in which we 
operate and our wider societal obligations, 
supporting the Board's objective of delivering 
sustainable returns to shareholders. 

You can read more about the  
Shared Growth Ambition at 

home.barclays/citizenship

Stakeholder views
As a Board we are conscious of the impact 
that our business and decisions have on our 
customers, clients and employees as well as 
our wider societal impact. It is through an 
appreciation of our stakeholders that we can 
create a strategy aimed at delivering 
sustainable returns to our shareholders over 
the long term. The Board is supported in this 
role by the Board Reputation Committee, 
which monitors key indicators across the 
areas of conduct, culture, citizenship and 
customer satisfaction, as well as Barclays' 
reputation and events that occur which may 
impact the trust in our brand.

The Board receives information about, and 
engages with, our various stakeholders 
throughout the year and one of the most 
important dates in our calendar is our Annual 
General Meeting, which gives the Board an 
opportunity to meet our shareholders and 
hear their views. During the year the Board is 
kept informed of shareholder views through 
regular updates from the Head of Investor 

Relations, as well as the views of employees 
through the results of the Barclays Your View 
employee opinion surveys. Another key 
stakeholder of Barclays is our regulators, and 
during 2017 the Board invited representatives 
of our regulators to attend meetings to hear 
directly their views and expectations of 
Barclays. All of these views form the context in 
which Board decision-making takes place and 
feeds into the considerations and debate 
when determining the Group's strategy.

Board effectiveness
To deliver our strategy and achieve the 
delivery of long-term, sustainable value for 
shareholders requires an effective Board. It is 
an important part of my role as Chairman to 
satisfy myself that the Board – both collectively 
and its individual members – operates 
effectively. Each year, we conduct a self-
assessment of our performance with the aid of 
an independent facilitator. As part of this 
process, I receive a report on the performance 
of our individual Directors, and our non-
executive Directors, led by our Senior 
Independent Director, have the opportunity to 
review my performance. I am pleased to report 
that the results of the findings showed that 
your Board and its Committees are still 
operating effectively. There are, of course, 
areas to work on and challenges ahead once 
the new Group structure is crystallised 
following the stand-up of our new ring-fenced 
bank in 2018. Ensuring that there is clear 
accountability and delineated responsibilities 
in the new structure, not just between boards 
but also between committees and between 
the boards and the executive team, will be a 
key focus for us in 2018. You can read more 
about the findings and the review process 
undertaken for 2017 on page 78.

Looking ahead
2018 will be another pivotal year for Barclays 
with the execution of our new Group 
corporate structure, and I look forward to 
working closely with the boards of Barclays UK 
and Barclays International to embed a strong 
framework to ensure clear, effective and 
consistent corporate governance. We will 
continue to work closely with executive 
management on improving performance 
within the Group's businesses, without losing 
sight of the need to constantly be acting in 
line with the Barclays Values and Purpose to 
build on and retain the trust and confidence of 
our customers, clients, employees. Together 
with your Board, we remain focused on 
working hard to execute the Group's strategy 
in order to create sustainable long-term value 
for our shareholders. 

John McFarlane
Chairman
21 February 2018

Board diversity
The Board has a balanced and diverse 
range of skills and experience. All Board 
appointments are made on merit, in the 
context of the diversity of gender, skills, 
experience and background required to be 
effective.

Balance of non-executive Directors: 
executive Directors

Chairman

Executive Directors

Non-executive Directors

1

2

11

Gender balance

3

11

Female

Male

Length of tenure
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)

1

2

3

1 0-3 years 6
2 3-6 years 4
3 6-9 years 2

Industry experience 
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)*

1 Financial Services 12 (100%)
2 Political/regulatory experience 12 (100%) 
3 Current/recent Chair/CEO 5 (42%)
4 Accountancy/auditing 2 (17%)
5 Operations and Technology 1 (8%)
6 Retail/marketing 1 (8%)

International experience†
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)* 

1 International (UK) 10 (83%)
2 International (US) 2 (17%)
3 International (Rest of the World)  2 (17%)

Notes
* Individual Directors may fall into one or more 

categories.
† In relation to board experience based on the 

location of the headquarters/registered office of a 
company.

46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Who we are – Board of Directors

John McFarlane 
Chairman

Appointed:  
1 January 2015 

Relevant skills and experience
John is Chairman of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC. He is a senior figure in global banking and 
financial services circles having spent over 40 years 
in the sector. 

John is currently chairman of TheCityUK and a 
member of the Financial Services Trade and 
Investment Board and the European Financial Round 
Table. Other current non-executive directorships 
include Westfield Corporation, Old Oak Holdings 
Limited and The International Monetary Conference. 
John was previously chairman of Aviva plc where he 
oversaw a transformation of the company FirstGroup 
plc, and the Australian Bankers Association. He was 
also a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland, joining at the time of the UK Government 
rescue. Prior to that he was CEO of Australia and 
New Zealand Banking Group Limited for 10 years, 
group executive director of Standard Chartered 
and head of Citibank in the UK.

Other current appointments
Member of Cranfield School of Management Advisory 
Board; Member of Institut International d'Etudes 
Bancaires; Member of the President's Committee 
Confederation of British Industry

Committees
Nominations (Chairman)

Jes Staley 
Group Chief 
Executive

Appointed:  
1 December 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Jes joined Barclays as Group Chief Executive on 
1 December 2015. He has nearly four decades of 
extensive experience in banking and financial services. 
He worked for more than 30 years at JP Morgan, initially 
training as a commercial banker, later advancing to the 
leadership of major businesses involving equities, private 
banking and asset management and ultimately heading 
the company's Global Investment Bank. Jes is currently 
a member of the Institute of International Finance and 
formerly served as managing partner at BlueMountain 
Capital. These roles have provided him with a vast 
experience in leadership and he brings a wealth of 
investment banking knowledge to Barclays' Board.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
None

Sir Gerry Grimstone 
Deputy Chairman 
and Senior 
Independent Director

Appointed: 
1 January 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Gerry brings to the Board a wealth of investment 
banking, financial services and commercial experience 
gained through his senior roles at Schroders and his 
various board positions. Sir Gerry has global business 
experience across the UK, Asia, the Middle East and 
the US. Sir Gerry has significant experience as a 
non-executive director and chairman. He is currently 
the chairman of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, 
independent non-executive board member of Deloitte 
NWE LLP, board adviser to the Abu Dhabi Commercial 
Bank and the lead non-executive at the Ministry of 
Defence. 

Other current appointments
Financial Services Trade and Investment Board

Committees
Nominations, Reputation (Chairman)

Mike Ashley 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
18 September 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Mike has deep knowledge of auditing and associated 
regulatory issues, having worked at KPMG for over 
20 years, where he was a partner. Mike was the lead 
engagement partner on the audits of large financial 
services groups including HSBC, Standard Chartered 
and the Bank of England. While at KPMG, Mike was 
Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG 
Europe LLP, responsible for the management of 
professional risks and quality control. He also held 
the role of KPMG UK's Ethics Partner.

Other current appointments
ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee; International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants; Chairman, 
Government Internal Audit Agency; Charity 
Commission

Committees
Audit (Chairman), Nominations, Risk, Reputation

Tim Breedon CBE 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 November 2012

Relevant skills and experience
Tim joined Barclays after a distinguished career with 
Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was 
the group chief executive until June 2012. Tim's 
experience as a CEO enables him to provide challenge, 
advice and support to the executive on performance 
and decision-making.

Tim brings to the Board extensive financial services 
experience, knowledge of risk management and UK 
and EU regulation, as well as an understanding of the 
key issues for investors.

Other current appointments
Marie Curie; Chairman, Apax Global Alpha Limited; 
Chairman, The Northview Group

Committees
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk (Chairman)

Sir Ian Cheshire 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
3 April 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Ian joined Barclays in April 2017 as a non-executive 
Director and the Chairman of Barclays UK. From his 
lengthy executive career including his time as Group 
Chief Executive of Kingfisher plc, Sir Ian brings to the 
Board substantial business experience particularly in 
the international retail sector, as well as experience in 
sustainability and environmental matters. He holds 
strong credentials in leadership as well as being highly 
regarded by the Government for his work with various 
Government departments. 

Other current appointments
Business Disability Forum President's Group; 
Debenhams plc; Maisons du monde; Menhaden plc; 
lead non-executive director for the Government

Committees
Nominations

Mary Francis CBE 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 October 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Mary has extensive board-level experience across 
a range of industries. She is a non-executive director 
of Swiss Re Group and Ensco plc and was formerly 
senior independent director of Centrica and a 
non-executive director of the Bank of England, Aviva 
and Alliance & Leicester. She held senior executive 
positions in the UK Treasury and Prime Minister's 
Office and in the City as Director General of the 
Association of British Insurers. She brings to Barclays 
strong understanding of the interaction between 
public and private sectors and skills in strategic 
decision-making and all aspects of board governance.

Other current appointments
Advisory Panel of The Institute of Business Ethics 

Committees
Remuneration, Reputation

Board of Directors
Barclays understands the importance of having a Board with the right balance of skills, 
experience and diversity, and the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board 
Nominations Committee. The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value 
they bring to the Barclays Board are highlighted below. 

Full biographies can be accessed online via  
home.barclays/investorrelations

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 47

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Crawford Gillies 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 May 2014

Relevant skills and experience
Crawford has extensive business and management 
experience, gained with Bain & Company and 
Standard Life plc. These roles have provided him 
with experience in strategic decision-making and 
knowledge of company strategy across various 
sectors and geographical locations.

Crawford is currently senior independent director  
of SSE plc. He has also held board and committee 
chairman positions during his career, notably as 
chairman of the remuneration committees of 
Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC.

Other current appointments
Chairman, The Edrington Group Limited

Committees
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration (Chairman)

Reuben Jeffery III
Non-executive

Appointed:  
16 July 2009

Relevant skills and experience
Reuben has extensive financial services experience, 
particularly within investment banking and wealth 
management, through his role as CEO and president 
of Rockefeller & Co. Inc. and Rockefeller Financial 
Services Inc. and his former senior roles with 
Goldman Sachs, head of the European Financial 
Institutions Group. His previous government roles in 
the US, including as chairman of the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission and as an under 
Secretary of State, provide Barclays' Board with insight 
into the US political and regulatory environment.

Other current appointments
Financial Services Volunteer Corps; The Asia 
Foundation

Committees
Nominations, Risk

Matthew Lester 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 September 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Matthew joined Barclays as a non-executive Director 
in September 2017 and contributes strong financial 
management and regulatory experience to the Board, 
having held a number of senior finance roles across a 
range of business sectors, including financial services. 
Most recently was chief financial officer of Royal Mail 
Group. Matthew's financial expertise enables him 
to analyse effectively complex reporting and risk 
management processes. He is currently a non-
executive director of Man Group plc and Capita plc, 
where he also chairs the audit and risk committees of 
both companies. 

Other current appointments
None

Committees
Audit, Risk

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance 
Director

Appointed:  
15 October 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Tushar joined Barclays in 2013 having spent the 
previous four years in senior management roles 
with JP Morgan Chase, most recently as the CFO 
of its Corporate & Investment Bank. Throughout his 
time with JP Morgan he gained strategic financial 
management and regulatory relations experience. 
Since joining the Barclays Board he has been a driving 
influence on the Group's cost reduction programme 
and managing the Group's capital plan, particularly 
in response to structural reform.

Other current appointments
Member of the 100 Group main committee 

Committees
None

Dambisa Moyo
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 May 2010

Relevant skills and experience
Dambisa is an international economist and 
commentator on the global economy, having 
completed a PhD in economics. Dambisa has a 
background in financial services and a wide 
knowledge and understanding of African economic, 
political and social issues, in addition to her 
experience as a director of companies with complex, 
global operations. She served as a non-executive 
director of SABMiller plc (2009-2016) and Seagate 
Technology plc (2015-2017).

Other current appointments
Chevron Corporation; Barrick Gold Corporation

Committees
Remuneration, Reputation

Diane Schueneman 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
25 June 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Diane joined Barclays after an extensive career at 
Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior roles, 
including responsibility for banking, brokerage 
services and technology provided to the company's 
retail and middle market clients, and latterly for IT, 
operations and client services worldwide. She brings 
a wealth of experience in managing global, 
cross-discipline business operations, client services 
and technology in the financial services industry. 
Diane is a member of the board of Barclays US LLC, 
Barclays' US intermediate holding company and chair 
of Barclays Services Limited.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
Audit, Risk

Mike Turner CBE 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 January 2018 

Relevant skills and experience
Mike has considerable business and board-level 
experience gained from his lengthy career with 
BAE Systems PLC where he was CEO as well as his 
non-executive positions. He has a strong commercial 
background and experience in strategy and 
operational performance culture. Mike brings 
significant leadership and strategic oversight 
experience to the Board, particularly from his roles 
as chairman of Babcock International Group PLC 
and GKN Plc.

Other current appointments
Member of the UK Government's Apprenticeship 
Ambassadors Network

Committees
Reputation

 
Company Secretary

Stephen Shapiro
Appointed:  
1 November 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Stephen was appointed Company Secretary in 
November 2017 having previously served as the 
Group Company Secretary and Deputy General 
Counsel of SABMiller plc. Prior to this, he practised 
law as a partner in a law firm in South Africa, and 
subsequently in the UK. Stephen has extensive 
experience in corporate governance, legal, regulatory 
and compliance matters. Stephen has also previously 
served as Chairman of the ICC UK's Committee on 
Anti-Corruption as well as on working groups of the 
GC100, providing business input into key areas of 
legislative and policy reform.

Who we are – Board of Directors

48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Paul Compton 
Group Chief 
Operating Officer

Bob Hoyt 
Group General 
Counsel

Laura Padovani 
Interim Group Chief 
Compliance Officer

Tristram Roberts 
Group Human 
Resources Director

Tim Throsby 
President, Barclays 
International and 
Chief Executive 
Officer, Corporate 
and Investment Bank

Ashok Vaswani 
CEO, Barclays UK

C S Venkatakrishnan 
Chief Risk Officer

Group Executive Committee meetings are also 
attended on a regular basis by the Chief 
Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, and by an 
ex-officio member, drawn from senior 
management. The current ex-officio member 
is Barry Rodrigues, Head of Barclaycard 
International.

Governance: Directors' report

Who we are – Group Executive Committee

Group Executive Committee
 Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance 
Director, who are members of the Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by 
Jes Staley, can be found on pages 47 and 48. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 49

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board report

We act in a way that we consider promotes 
the success of Barclays for the benefit of 
shareholders as a whole, and are accountable 
to the shareholders for creating and delivering 
sustainable value. It is our responsibility as the 
Board to ensure that management not only 
delivers on short-term objectives, but 
promotes the long-term growth of Barclays. 
Our corporate governance framework embeds 
what we believe are the right culture, values 
and behaviours throughout the Group and 
supports our role in determining strategic 
objectives and policies.

In addition to setting strategy and overseeing 
its implementation, we are also responsible 
for ensuring that management maintains an 
effective system of internal control. An 
effective system of internal control should 
provide assurance of effective and efficient 
operations, internal financial controls and 
compliance with law and regulation. In 
meeting this responsibility, we consider what 
is appropriate for the Group's business and 

reputation, the materiality of financial and 
other risks and the relevant costs and benefits 
of implementing controls. See page 82 for 
further details on those systems of controls.

The Board is the decision-making body for 
matters that, owing to their strategic, financial 
or reputational implications or consequences, 
are considered significant to the Group. 
A formal schedule of powers reserved to the 
Board ensures that our control of these key 
decisions is maintained. A summary of the 
matters reserved to the Board can be found 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance. It 
includes the approval of appointments to the 
Board, Barclays' strategy, financial statements, 
capital expenditure and any major 
acquisitions, mergers or disposals.

Board Committees
The main Board Committees are the Board 
Audit Committee, the Board Nominations 
Committee, the Board Remuneration 
Committee, the Board Reputation Committee 

and the Board Risk Committee. Pursuant  
to authority granted under our Articles of 
Association, each Board Committee has had 
specific responsibilities delegated to it by the 
Board. Further information on the role and 
activities of each of the Board Committees 
can be found in this report on pages 53 to 79 
and pages 114 to 115, and in their individual 
terms of reference, which have been  
approved by the Board and are available at 
home.barclays/corporategovernance.

In addition, the Regulatory Investigations 
Committee was formed in 2012 and focused 
on providing Board-level oversight of 
regulatory investigations. In 2017, this 
Committee was disbanded with residual 
matters being brought under the oversight 
of the Board Audit Committee or falling 
directly under the Board's oversight, as 
appropriate. 

You can read more about what the Board and 
each of the Board Committees did during 2017 
on the following pages.

Barclays Board
The Board is responsible for creating and sustaining 
shareholder value, through setting and overseeing the 
implementation of Barclays' strategy

Board Reputation
Committee

■ Considers Barclays' conduct 
and reputational risk issues 
and exposures

■ Reviews and approves 
Barclays' overall citizenship 
strategy

■ Oversees Barclays' approach 
to customer and regulatory 
matters

Board Risk 
Committee

■ Monitors and recommends 
financial and operational 
risk appetite

■ Monitors the financial and 
operational risk profile

■ Reviews limits for types of 
financial and operational 
risk

Board Remuneration
Committee

■ Sets principles and 
parameters of remuneration 
for Barclays

■ Considers and approves 
remuneration for executive 
Directors and senior 
executives

■ Oversees employee share 
schemes

Board Nominations
Committee

■ Reviews the composition 
of the Board

■ Recommends the 
appointment of new 
Directors

■ Considers succession plans 
for the Chairman and Group 
Chief Executive 

■ Oversees the annual Board 
effectiveness review

Board Audit 
Committee

■ Reviews accounting policies 
and financial reports

■ Monitors the internal 
control environment

■ Considers the adequacy and 
scope of the internal and 
external audit

■ Reviews and monitors the 
Group's whistleblowing 
policies

See page 53 for 
further information.

See page 75 for 
further information.

See page 93 for 
further information.

See page 69 for 
further information.

See page 64 for 
further information.

Board Governance Framework

The role of the Board
The Board of Directors is responsible for promoting the highest standards of corporate governance in Barclays. 

Further details about our corporate governance framework, policies and Board responsibilities can be found online at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance

50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
 Strategic goals Principal risks

Strategy formulation and monitoring

Debated and provided input to management on the formulation of overall Group strategy, and 
reflected on the Group strategy with longer-term views on what could be done to accelerate 
returns and build capital. The topics covered include:
■■ potential growth opportunities, and key trends and risks, for Barclays UK and Barclays 

International
■■ constraints and risks to strategy execution, including economic assumptions, expected 

regulatory requirements on capital and solvency ratios, anticipated changes to accounting 
rules including IFRS 9, investor expectations, and potential impacts for clients and customers

■■ a strategic approach to costs optimisation, including analysing the impact on costs of 
different structural initiatives such as product redesign and automation

■■ impact of continuing legacy conduct issues on capital requirements and profit targets
■■ options for the location of Barclays' operations in Europe, driven by the EU Referendum result.

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against 
the Group's 2017 execution priorities and capital targets, received insights on stakeholder, 
employee and cultural matters (including results from employee opinion surveys), and updates 
on items of focus for the Group Executive Committee.

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Considered the strategy, and assessed the progress of execution of strategy, in the businesses 
within each of Barclays UK and Barclays International.

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Monitored the progress of the sell down of the Group's remaining interest in Barclays Africa 
Group Limited. 

 Ac  Bu Tr  Op  Re  Le

Monitored the progress of the rundown and subsequent closure of Barclays Non-Core.  Ac  Bu Tr  Op  Re  Le

Monitored the progress of the Group's execution of its structural reform programme – see the 
case study on page 52 for further details.

St  Ac  Bu Tr  Op  Re  Le

Monitored the potential implications of the UK's preparations to leave the EU following the EU 
Referendum result; approved and monitored progress of the expansion of Barclays Bank Ireland's 
operations in preparation for Brexit – see the case study on page 52 for further details.

St  Ac  Bu Ma  Tr  Op  Re  Le

Finance (including capital and liquidity)

Debated and approved the Group's Medium Term Plan for 2017-2019. St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Mo  Co  Le

Regularly assessed financial performance of the Group and its main businesses through reports 
from the Group Finance Director.

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Mo  Co  Le

Reviewed and approved Barclays' financial results prior to publication, including approving final 
and interim dividends.

St  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Re

Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays' strategic and financial results 
announcements, with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations.

St  Bu Re

Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the high-level shape of Barclays' 
2018-2020 Medium Term Plan and subsequently approved the final plan.

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Mo  Co  Le

During 2017, the Board focused on a number of specific areas, outlined in the table below, 
in line with Barclays' three strategic goals and eight Principal Risks:

Strategic goals
St  Have strong foundations in place 
Ac  Accelerate the completion of restructuring
Bu  Build the Barclays of the future

Principal risks 
Cr  Credit
Ma  Market
Tr  Treasury and capital
Op  Operational
Mo  Model
Re  Reputation
Co  Conduct
Le  Legal

Board allocation of time* (%)

1

23

4

2017 2016
1 Strategy formulation and 

implementation monitoring 47 55
2 Finance (including capital and 

liquidity) 15 17
3 Governance and risk 

(including regulatory issues) 35 26
4 Other (including compensation) 3 2

* Based on scheduled Board meetings

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 51

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

 Strategic goals Principal risks

Governance and risk (including regulatory issues)

Debated and approved the 2017 risk appetite for the Barclays Group St  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Mo  Co

Regularly assessed Barclays' overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from 
the Chief Risk Officer and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee

St  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Received reports on Barclays' operational and technology capability, including specific updates 
on cyber risk capability and the strategy for technology and infrastructure services 

St  Bu Op  Mo  Re  Le

Approved the Group's 2017 Recovery Plan and US Resolution Plan St  Bu Ma  Tr

Invited representatives of Barclays' UK and US regulators to meetings to enable the Board to 
hear first-hand about regulatory expectations and their specific views on Barclays

St  Ac  Bu Tr  Op  Re  Co  Le

Considered and debated proposals for the establishment of a programme to further enhance 
Barclays' management information framework across all businesses and entities within the 
Group

St  Bu Op  Mo

Discussed and received regular updates directly from the Chief Controls Officer on the Group's 
internal controls and framework, and monitored progress of the Barclays Internal Control 
Enhancement Plan (the programme for remediation of identified risk and control issues)

St  Bu Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal and regulatory risks 
and issues facing Barclays – refer to note 29 in the financial statements

St  Ac  Bu Tr  Re  Co  Le

Considered matters relating to Board succession and approved appointments to the Board and 
Board Committees
Received and considered regular updates from the Chairmen of the Board's principal Board 
Committees on the matters discussed at Board Committee meetings. See the reports of each 
Board Committee set out on the following pages for further details

St  Ac  Bu Cr  Ma  Tr  Op  Mo  Re  Co  Le

Received regular updates (following the establishment of each respective board) from the Chairs 
of the Barclays UK and Barclays International divisional boards and the Group Service Company

St  Ac  Bu Re

Considered updates on views of major shareholders, particularly in the period leading up to the 
2017 Annual General Meeting

St  Bu Re

Discussed the Board and Committee governance framework in the context of structural reform, 
and considered significant developments in UK corporate governance and other corporate 
governance matters
Considered the results of the 2016 Board effectiveness review and proposed action plan, and 
considered the process for and findings of the 2017 Board effectiveness review. See page 78 for 
further details of this process and the findings for 2017

St  Ac  Bu Op  Co

Other (including compensation)

Considered progress on Barclays' talent and succession planning (and hosted receptions for key 
talent within the Group), and received updates on the Bank's diversity and inclusion initiatives, 
including from the Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee

St  Bu Op  Re  Co

Considered and approved the 2017 incentive funding pools for the Group and allocation among 
each business and function – see the Remuneration report on pages 93 to 116 for further details 

St  Bu Op  Re  Co

What we did in 2017
Board report

Governance in action – Structural reform and Brexit

Execution of structural reform
The execution of our structural reform 
programme was a significant focus for the 
Group in 2017 as we move towards the legal 
entity stand up of our ring-fenced bank in 
2018. Building on from the work carried out 
in 2016, the Board continued to closely 
monitor and evaluate progress on the 
execution of the programme in 2017. Specific 
matters addressed by the Board included the 
following:
■■ overseeing the establishment of the Group 

Service Company, which was launched on 
1 September 2017

■■ monitoring the stakeholder 
communications plan (including, in 
particular, the communications plan for 
customers and employees)

■■ considering regular updates on migrating 
sort codes with a focus on any potential 
impact on customers and clients

■■ overseeing and approving various transfers 
of assets and liabilities among Barclays 
Group entities including establishing a 
committee to provide appropriate 
Board-level oversight of the processes 
involved

■■ with the support of the Board Nominations 
Committee, debating the composition of, 
and appointments to each of, the boards 
of Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
the Group Service Company and 
discussing the appropriate governance 
arrangements for the new Group structure. 

Preparations for Brexit
Another area of focus for the Board was 
preparations for the impact of the UK's exit 
from the EU. Barclays has created an internal 
programme specifically in relation to the 
planning and preparation for Brexit. The 
Board debated potential EU hubs for Barclays' 

European operations and decided to pursue 
expansion in Ireland where we have been 
operating for over 40 years and have an 
existing banking licence held by Barclays 
Bank Ireland. Specific matters considered by 
the Board included debating the feasibility of 
a significant expansion of Barclays Bank 
Ireland's operations, the transfer of capital 
and resources to Barclays Bank Ireland and 
assessing the progress being made with 
applications for the necessary regulatory 
licensing requirements with the relevant 
authorities.

The successful completion of the Group's 
structural reform programme and further 
progress on our Brexit plans will continue to 
be areas of focus for the Board in 2018. 

52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
In writing this report I have reflected on how 
Barclays has been working to embed the 
significant strategic changes put in place 
during 2016 while responding to new 
challenges driven by the external landscape, 
in particular the delivery of structural reform 
and preparation for Brexit. 

As I reported in 2017, the Committee 
continues to consider a critical part of its role 
to be ensuring that the commitment to 
strengthening Barclays' control environment is 
maintained throughout this transformational 
period. My Committee colleagues and I have 
been encouraged by the increased rigour 
applied to oversight of the Group control 
environment following the creation of the 
Chief Controls Office at the end of 2016. This 
has given the Committee greater clarity and 
transparency regarding thematic control 
environment issues impacting the Group, and 
has helped to highlight areas of the business 
where there may be a concentration of issues 
and where focus on remediation is required. 
Regular updates on the overall control 
environment framework have also continued 
to be provided to the Board over the course of 
the year, underlining the importance that the 
Board of Barclays places on this programme 
of activity. 

Solid progress has been made in turning the 
controls enhancement programme into a 
‘business as usual' activity, with an emphasis 
on achieving sustainable progress. The 
Committee has observed heightened focus 
and attention across the organisation on the 
importance of having robust processes in 
place across the business to self-identify 
controls issues and ensure that there are 
effective remediation plans in place for which 
senior management are accountable. The 
embedding of the Chief Controls Office as part 
of the first line of management within the 
organisation has also been helpful in 
delineating more clearly for the organisation 
the respective roles of the second and third 
lines of defence. The Chief Controls Office has 
taken over the co-ordination of the Risk and 
Control Self-Assessment process and this will 

continue to be an area of focus in 2018 as 
management develops a more detailed, 
granular self-assessment process which 
should assist in proactively identifying controls 
which require remediation. Further details 
may be found in the Risk management and 
internal control section on page 82. 

The Committee has continued to engage with 
senior management regarding areas of 
controls weaknesses in their businesses and 
has received presentations from a number  
of different areas of the organisation on the 
actions taken to address unsatisfactory  
audit reports. 

In assessing control issues for disclosure in 
the Annual Report, the Committee has 
continued to apply similar definitions to those 
used for assessing internal financial controls 
for the purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley. The 
conclusion we have reached is that there are 
no control issues that are considered to be a 
material weakness, which merit specific 
disclosure. 

The Committee has continued to oversee 
the performance and effectiveness of internal 
and external audit, the main independent 
assurance mechanisms that serve to protect 
shareholders' interests. 

I continue to hold regular meetings with the 
Chief Internal Auditor and members of her 
senior management team to ensure I am 
aware of current work programmes and any 
emerging issues. I also agreed the Chief 
Internal Auditor's objectives and the 
outcomes of her performance assessment 
and remuneration. The Committee also held 
a networking event with Barclays Internal 
Audit (BIA) during 2017, enabling Committee 
members to meet on a less formal basis with 
senior members of the BIA management 
team. 

During 2017, the Committee continued to 
monitor closely the implementation of the 
action plan to address the recommendations 
arising from the review undertaken by 
the PRA of BIA to increase its effectiveness. 
The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors 
requires an independent external review of 

internal audit functions to be carried out at 
least every five years and during 2017, the 
Committee commissioned an independent 
external quality assessment of BIA, further 
details of which may be found on page 61. 
The Committee was satisfied with the 
conclusions drawn in the report, while noting 
that there were a number of areas for 
potential development. The Committee 
considered that the need for a period of 
stability and consolidation within BIA would 
be particularly important to embedding 
existing initiatives and the Committee will 
continue to monitor this and other 
recommendations during 2018. In preparation 
for structural reform, BIA has aligned its audit 
planning and reporting to the new legal entity 
structure. 

The Committee continued to exercise its 
responsibility for ensuring the integrity of 
Barclays' published financial information  
by debating and challenging the critical 
judgements and estimates made by 
management. The exercise of appropriate 
judgement in preparing the financial 
statements is critical in ensuring that Barclays 
reports to its shareholders in a fair, balanced 
and transparent way. During the course of 
2017, the Committee oversaw Barclays' 
transition to KPMG as Barclays' statutory 
auditor which was approved by shareholders 
at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. The lead 
audit partner is Guy Bainbridge who has held 
this role since KPMG's appointment as the 
Group's auditor. KPMG has brought fresh 
challenge and insight not only on accounting 
judgements and policies but also on financial 
controls which the Committee has found 
valuable. The report that follows sets out 
details of the material matters considered by 
the Committee since my last report. One of 
the key developments in accounting policy in 
2017 has been Barclays' preparation for the 
implementation of the IFRS 9 impairment 
standard on 1 January 2018. The Committee 
reviewed the guidance note to non-executive 
Directors from the PRA in relation to IFRS 9 
implementation and was comfortable that 
the areas highlighted by the PRA were being 
addressed. Further details of the Committee's 

Solid progress has been made in turning the controls 
enhancement programme into a ‘business as usual' 
activity, with an emphasis on achieving sustainable 
progress.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 53

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

consideration of the judgements and financial 
impacts relating to the implementation of the 
new standard may be found in the 
‘Governance in action' section of the 
Committee report on page 63.

I have continued to hold the role of 
Whistleblower's Champion, a position 
required by the FCA to be held at Board level. 
As champion, I continue to have specific 
responsibility for the integrity, independence 
and effectiveness of the Barclays' policies and 
procedures on whistleblowing, including the 
procedures for protecting employees who 
raise concerns from detrimental treatment. 
As Whistleblower's Champion and as 
Chairman of the Committee, I have been 
involved in overseeing the implementation of 
the suggested enhancements following the 
benchmarking review undertaken in 2017 at 
the request of the Board of Barclays. 

Responsibility for the oversight of litigation, 
investigation and competition matters has 
transitioned to the Committee, in line with the 
Committee's existing responsibility for the 
oversight of matters related to disclosure and 
provisioning. The Committee has received 
regular updates on these matters from the 
Group General Counsel, with matters of 
particular significance to the Group continuing 
to be subject to oversight by the Board 
of Barclays. 

I attended meetings of the IHC audit 
committee to gain a first-hand insight into  
the issues being addressed by that committee 
and have held regular meetings with the 
chairmen-elect of the Barclays UK and 
Barclays International audit committees.  
The chairmen or chairmen-elect of all those 
entities have attended at least one Committee 
meeting during 2017. I also met frequently 
with other members of senior management, 
including the Group Finance Director, and 
continued my engagement with Barclays' 
regulators both in the UK and US. I have 
reported regularly on the activities of the 
Committee to the Board of Barclays.

Committee performance
The Committee's performance during 2017 
was assessed as part of an internal committee 
effectiveness review. The conclusion of my 
Board colleagues and standing attendees at 
Committee meetings was that the Committee 
is regarded as operating effectively and the 
Board takes assurance from the quality of the 
Committee's work. It is considered well 
constituted with the right balance of skills and 
experience. The main area identified for 
improvement was the need to manage a 
demanding agenda efficiently so that time is 
allocated to the most significant items for 
discussion. 

Last year's review commented on the need 
to strengthen the depth of financial and 
accounting expertise on the Committee via 
new appointments, which I am pleased was 
addressed through the appointment of 
Matthew Lester to the Committee when he 
joined the Board of Barclays in September 
2017. The review also highlighted the need to 
ensure that the way in which the Committee 
works with the Board Reputation and Board 
Risk Committees continues to capture all 
significant issues effectively while minimising 
any overlap. I continued to work closely with 
my fellow Board Committee chairmen during 
2017, particularly with the Board Risk 
Committee Chairman in order to clarify the 
responsibility of the respective committees for 
operational risk issues, which each Committee 
has a role in overseeing. 

You can read more about the outcomes of the 
Board effectiveness review on page 78.

Looking ahead
In 2018, in addition to overseeing 
management's progress in continuing to 
embed the role of the Chief Controls Office 
and the Group's management of controls 
remediation, the Committee will be focusing 
on some significant accounting issues, 
including in particular, monitoring the impact 
of IFRS 9 and the resultant disclosures. The 
Committee is looking forward to working with 
the audit committees of Barclays UK and 
Barclays International as we discharge our 
responsibilities and focus on ensuring efficient 
and effective coverage of the business under 
the new group structure. We have already 
agreed an allocation of responsibilities, and 
embedding the necessary reporting and 
information flows across the three audit 
committees to ensure all of them can 
discharge their responsibilities efficiently  
will be a key area of focus. 

Mike Ashley
Chairman, Board Audit Committee 
21 February 2018

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors, with 
membership designed to provide the breadth 
of financial expertise and commercial acumen 
it needs to fulfil its responsibilities. Its 
members as a whole have experience of the 
banking and financial services sector in 
addition to general management and 
commercial experience. Mike Ashley, who is 
the designated financial expert on the 
Committee for the purposes of the US 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is a former audit partner 
who during his executive career acted as lead 
engagement partner on the audits of a 
number of large financial services groups. 
Following the Board's finding that the 
Committee could be strengthened by the 
appointment of an additional member with 
direct accounting and auditing experience, 
Matthew Lester was appointed to the Board 
and Committee with effect from 1 September 
2017. During his executive career, Matthew 
held a number of senior finance roles across a 
range of business sectors, including financial 
services, and most recently was the Chief 
Financial Officer of Royal Mail Group. You can 
find more details of the experience of 
Committee members in their biographies on 
pages 47 and 48.

The Committee met 10 times in 2017 and the 
chart above shows how it allocated its time. 
Meetings are generally arranged well in 
advance and are scheduled in line 
with Barclays' financial reporting timetable. 
One additional meeting was arranged to 
select an appropriate service provider for the 
independent review of Barclays Internal Audit 
and to undertake an early review of particular 
issues relevant to the financial statements. 
Committee meetings were attended by 
management, including as required the Group 

Committee allocation of time (%)
1

2

3

4

5
6

2017 2016
1 Control issues 11* 23
2 Business control environment 15 19
3 Financial results 33 36
4 Internal audit matters 25† 11
5 External audit matters 8 6
6 Other (including governance 

and compliance) 8 4

* The time allocation in 2017 has reduced following 
the streamlining of the reporting of control issues 
through the Chief Controls Office.

† The increased time allocation to internal audit 
matters in 2017 reflects the role of the Committee 
in (i) overseeing the recommendations arising 
from the review undertaken by the PRA of Barclays 
Internal Audit to increase its effectiveness, and 
(ii) the independent external quality assessment of 
Barclays Internal Audit which was commissioned 
by the Committee in 2017.

54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief 
Internal Auditor, Chief Controls Officer, Chief 
Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Group 
General Counsel and Head of Compliance, as 
well as representatives from the businesses 
and other functions. The lead audit partner 
of KPMG (the Group's external auditor), 
Guy Bainbridge, attended all Committee 
meetings since January 2017. The Committee 
held a number of private sessions with each 
of the Chief Internal Auditor or the lead 
audit partner, which were not attended by 
management. The lead audit partner of 
PwC, the Group's previous external auditor, 
attended meetings until the end of February 
2017 to deliver its final audit report to the 
Committee on the 2016 financial statements 
before PwC resigned as the Group's statutory 
auditor.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Mike Ashley 10/10
Tim Breedon 10/10
Crawford Gillies 10/10
Diane Schueneman* 8/10
Matthew Lester (from 1 September 2017)† 1/3

* Did not attend due to personal circumstances.
† Did not attend owing to existing commitments with 

other boards (the Committee meeting dates were set 
before Matthew joined the Board).

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ assessing the integrity of the Group's 

financial reporting and satisfying itself that 
any significant financial judgements made 
by management are sound

■■ evaluating the effectiveness of the Group's 
internal controls, including internal financial 
controls

■■ scrutinising the activities and performance 
of the internal and external auditors, 
including monitoring their independence 
and objectivity

■■ overseeing the relationship with the Group's 
external auditor

■■ reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of the Group's whistleblowing procedures

■■ overseeing significant legal and regulatory 
investigations, including the proposed 
litigation statement for inclusion in the 
statutory accounts.

The Committee's terms of  
reference are available at 

home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed 
by the Committee during 2017 and in 
evaluating Barclays' 2017 Annual Report 
and financial statements, are described on 
the following pages.

Financial statement reporting issues
The Committee's main responsibility in 
relation to Barclays' financial reporting is  
to review with both management and the 
external auditor the appropriateness of 
Barclays' financial statements, including 
quarterly results announcements and 
half-year and annual financial statements  
and supporting analyst presentations, with  
its primary focus being on:
■■ the quality and acceptability of accounting 

policies and practices
■■ any correspondence from financial 

reporting regulators in relation to Barclays' 
financial reporting

■■ material areas where significant judgements 
have been made, along with any significant 
assumptions or estimates, or where 
significant issues have been discussed with 
or challenged by the external auditor

■■ an assessment of whether the Annual 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess Barclays' position and performance, 
business model and strategy.

Accounting policies and practices
The Committee discussed reports from 
management in relation to the identification 
of critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty, significant 
accounting policies and the proposed 
disclosure of these in the 2017 Annual Report. 
Following discussions with both management 
and the external auditor, the Committee 
approved the critical accounting judgements, 
significant accounting policies and 
disclosures, which are set out in Note 1, 
‘Significant accounting policies', to the 
consolidated financial statements.

There was one significant change in 
accounting policy during the period which 
was the early adoption of IFRS 9 (Financial 
Instruments) in relation to own credit, 
resulting in the recognition of fair value 
movements through the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. Further information 
regarding this change can be found in note 1, 
to the consolidated financial statements. Two 
new significant accounting standards became 
effective from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 
(Financial Instruments) and IFRS 15 (Revenue 
Recognition). Further information regarding 
these changes can be found in note 1, to the 
consolidated financial statements. During 
2017, the Committee was regularly updated on 
Barclays' preparations for the implementation 
of IFRS 9, in particular in relation to the new 
expected loss model which represents a 
fundamental change in approach to 

impairment. The Committee discussed with 
management the key technical decisions and 
interpretations required and Barclays' 
approach to these. Further details of the 
Committee's role in overseeing the Group's 
IFRS 9 preparations can be found on page 63, 
‘Governance in action'. 

Financial reporting regulators and Barclays
The Committee from time to time considers 
comment letters and papers from external 
bodies including the SEC and the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC). In that regard, the 
Committee considered the following:
■■ the FRC's Year-End Advice Letter to Audit 

Committee Chairs and Finance Directors 
which highlighted key developments for 
2017/18 annual report

■■ the FRC's Annual Review of Corporate 
Reporting which summarised key 
characteristics of good corporate reporting 
for the 2017/18 reporting year

■■ the PRA note of advice to non-executive 
Directors regarding IFRS 9 implementation 
which set out a series of questions for 
consideration to ensure audit committees 
were well prepared for the transition and its 
implications.

The Committee sought to ensure that Barclays 
took due account of the matters raised in the 
letters and papers described above in its 
external reporting and has sought to enhance 
and clarify relevant disclosures.

The Committee from time to time considers 
comment letters from the SEC in relation to its 
reviews of Barclays' Annual Report and other 
publicly filed financial statements. Such 
comment letters and Barclays' responses are 
made publicly available by the SEC on its 
website, sec.gov, once it has closed each such 
review. Barclays received one comment letter 
from the SEC during 2017 requesting 
clarification from the SEC in relation to its 
2017 half year filing. Barclays responded to 
clarify the queries raised by the SEC. The letter 
did not raise any material concerns or 
disclosure items. 

Significant judgements and estimates
The significant judgements and estimates and 
actions taken by the Committee in relation to 
the 2017 Annual Report and financial 
statements are outlined below. The significant 
judgements and estimates are broadly 
comparable in nature to prior years. Each of 
these matters was discussed with the external 
auditor during the year and, where 
appropriate, have been addressed in the 
Auditor's Report on pages 228 to 233.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 55

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Conduct provisions
(refer to Note 27 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays makes certain 
assumptions and estimates, 
analysis of which underpins 
provisions made for the costs  
of customer redress, such as  
for Payment Protection  
Insurance (PPI).

■■ Regularly analysed the judgements and 
estimates made with regard to Barclays' 
provisioning for PPI claims, taking into 
account forecasts and assumptions 
made for PPI complaints and actual 
claims experience for Barclays and the 
industry as a whole, including the 
volume of invalid PPI claims.

■■ Debated the impact on the future range 
of provisions arising from (i) the FCA's 
introduction of August 2019 as the 
time-bar on claims, (ii) the PPI marketing 
campaign, and (iii) the progress of the 
proposed fee cap on the submission of 
PPI complaints by claims management 
companies which is being considered by 
the UK Parliament.

■■ Evaluated proposed additional provisions 
for PPI, considering whether the total 
provision is within the modelled range  
of future outcomes, and whether the 
external auditor agreed with 
management's analysis and approach.

■■ Monitored the position on provisions  
for alternative PPI (card protection and 
payment break plan insurance) and 
considered whether further provisions 
were required.

The Committee and management 
continue to monitor closely any 
changes in customer or claims 
management companies' behaviour in 
light of the FCA time-bar and 
marketing campaign and the ongoing 
impact of the Plevin case. Having 
regard to the actual claims experience 
over 2017 the Committee agreed with 
management's assessment that the 
current provision of £1,600m was 
appropriate. The Committee noted that 
this estimate remains subject to 
significant uncertainty in particular 
regarding the level of valid customer 
claims that may be received in the 
period to August 2019. In this context 
the Committee was satisfied that 
sensitivities to the key variables were 
appropriately disclosed. 

Legal, competition 
and regulatory 
provisions
(refer to Notes 27 to 
29 to the financial 
statements)

Barclays is engaged in various 
legal, competition and regulatory 
matters. The extent of the impact 
on Barclays of these matters 
cannot always be predicted, but 
matters can give rise to 
provisioning for contingent and 
other liabilities depending on the 
relevant facts and circumstances. 
The level of provisioning is subject 
to management judgement on the 
basis of legal advice and is 
therefore an area of focus for 
the Committee.

■■ Evaluated advice on the status of  
current legal, competition and 
 regulatory matters.

■■ Assessed management's judgements 
and estimates of the levels of provisions 
to be taken and the adequacy of those 
provisions, based on available 
information and evidence.

■■ Considered the adequacy of disclosure, 
recognising that any decision to set 
provisions involves significant 
judgement.

The Committee discussed provisions 
and utilisation. Having reviewed the 
information available to determine 
what was both probable and could  
be reliably estimated, the Committee 
agreed that the level of provision at  
the year end was appropriate. The 
Committee also considered that the 
disclosures made provided the 
appropriate information for investors 
regarding the legal, competition and 
regulatory matters being addressed  
by the Group.

Valuations
(refer to Notes 14 to 18 
to the financial 
statements)

Barclays exercises judgement in 
the valuation and disclosure of 
financial instruments, derivative 
assets and certain portfolios, 
particularly where quoted market 
prices are not available, including 
the Group's Education, Social 
Housing and Local Authority 
(ESHLA) portfolio.

■■ Evaluated reports from Barclays 
Valuations Committee, with particular 
focus on the matters below.

■■ Monitored the valuation methods 
applied by management to significant 
valuation items, including the ESHLA 
portfolio, a valuation disparity with a 
third party in respect of a specific long 
dated derivative portfolio, and the 
approach to the marking of Own Credit.

■■ Monitored and discussed the impact of 
negative interest rates on derivative 
valuation.

■■ Considered the treatment of the 
re-integration of Non-Core residual 
operations into the core business.

The Committee discussed these 
matters and agreed that a minor 
modification be made to the valuation 
of the specific long dated derivative 
portfolio where there existed significant 
valuation disparity. This did not result 
in a material change to the fair value 
recorded by the Group. The Committee 
noted that, following efforts by 
management to restructure derivative 
agreements impacted by negative 
interest rates, any residual uncertainty 
was now insignificant.

56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Impairment
(refer to Note 7 to the 
financial statements)

Where appropriate, Barclays 
models potential impairment 
performance, allowing for certain 
assumptions and sensitivities, 
to agree allowances for credit 
impairment, including agreeing 
the timing of the recognition of 
any impairment and estimating 
the size, particularly where 
forbearance has been granted.

■■ Assessed impairment experience against 
forecast and whether impairment 
provisions were appropriate.

■■ Evaluated credit impairment reports 
(reviewed by the Group Impairment 
Committee) presented by the Chief 
Risk Officer.

■■ Considered a report from the Chief Risk 
Officer on the position in the US Cards 
portfolio and monitored the position to 
determine whether increase in 
impairment would be required.

■■ Considered a report from the Group 
Impairment Committee on the adequacy 
of loan impairment allowances as at 
31 December 2017, including assessing 
internal and external trends, 
methodologies and key management 
estimates.

The Committee reviewed model 
adjustments made by management  
to ensure that impairment allowances 
were set at appropriate and adequate 
levels. The Committee reviewed the 
impairment charge in Barclaycard US 
arising in the third quarter from the 
asset sale in the first quarter. The 
Committee also reviewed three 
material single name charges in  
the Corporate Bank.

The Committee agreed that the 
provision levels for impairment  
were appropriate.

Tax
(refer to Note 10 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays is subject to taxation in a 
number of jurisdictions globally 
and makes judgements with 
regard to provisioning for tax at 
risk and on the recognition and 
measurement of deferred  
tax assets.

■■ Evaluated the appropriateness of tax risk 
provisions to cover existing tax risk.

■■ Confirmed the forecasts and 
assumptions supporting the recognition 
and valuation of deferred tax assets was 
in line with Barclays' Medium Term Plan 
(MTP).

■■ Monitored the impact to Barclays of the 
new US framework for tax legislation 
covering a broad range of tax proposals 
which was enacted on 22 December 
2017 and which had a substantial impact 
on the measurement of the Group's US 
deferred tax assets. The Committee also 
considered the potential impact of the 
Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT) 
which was introduced as part of the  
new legislation.

The Committee reviewed Barclays' 
global tax risk and associated 
provisions for the full year and noted 
that the level of tax provisions 
remained at about the same level, 
although the amount of gross tax risk 
was assessed as slightly reduced.

In relation to the treatment of deferred 
tax assets the Committee noted that 
those due to US tax losses (£1,520m) 
are forecast to be utilised by 2019 
which is significantly earlier than the 
first expiry date of 2028. 

The Committee agreed with 
management's view that it was 
appropriate not to take account of any 
potential future BEAT liabilities in the 
measurement of the deferred tax 
assets. It noted that this would be in 
line with recent US GAAP 
pronouncements and as disclosed, 
management is also continuing to 
assess the full impact to the Group  
of the complex provisions in the new 
US legislation.

Long-term viability
(refer to Note 41 to the 
financial statements)

The Directors are required to make 
a statement in the Annual Report 
as to the long-term viability of 
Barclays. The Committee provides 
advice to the Board on the form 
and content of the statement, 
including the underlying 
assumptions.

■■ Evaluated at year end a report from 
management setting out the view of 
Barclays' long-term viability. This report 
was based on Barclays' MTP and covered 
forecasts for capital, liquidity and 
leverage, including forecast performance 
against regulatory targets, outcomes of 
the stress test of the MTP and forecast 
capital and liquidity performance against 
stress hurdle rates, funding and liquidity 
forecasts and an assessment of global 
risk themes and the Group's risk profile.

■■ Considered the viability statement in 
conjunction with Barclays' risk 
statements and strategy/business model 
disclosures.

■■ Addressed feedback from investors, the 
FRC and other stakeholders on viability 
statements in general.

The Committee agreed that the 
appropriate timeframe for the viability 
statement continued to be three years.

Taking into account the assessment  
by the Board Risk Committee of stress 
testing results and risk appetite, the 
Committee agreed to recommend  
the viability statement to the Board  
for approval.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 57

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Fair, balanced and 
understandable 
reporting 
(including country-by-
country reporting and 
Pillar 3 reporting)

Barclays is required to ensure 
that its external reporting is fair, 
balanced and understandable. 
The Committee undertakes an 
assessment on behalf of the Board 
in order to provide the Board with 
assurance that it can make the 
statement required by the UK Code 
on Corporate Governance.

■■ Assessed through discussion with and 
challenge of management, including 
the Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director, whether disclosures in 
Barclays' Annual Report and other 
financial reports were fair, balanced and 
understandable.

■■ Evaluated reports from Barclays' 
Disclosure Committee on its assessment 
of the content, accuracy and tone of 
the disclosures.

■■ Established through reports from 
management that there were no 
indications of fraud relating to financial 
reporting matters.

■■ Evaluated the outputs of Barclays' 
internal control assessments and 
Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal control 
process.

■■ Assessed disclosure controls and 
procedures.

■■ Confirmed that management had 
reported on and evidenced the basis on 
which representations to the external 
auditors were made.

Having evaluated all of the available 
information and the assurances 
provided by management, the 
Committee concluded that the 
processes underlying the preparation 
of Barclays' published financial 
statements, including the 2017 Annual 
Report and financial statements, were 
appropriate in ensuring that those 
statements were fair, balanced and 
understandable.

In assessing Barclays' financial results 
statements over the course of 2017, the 
Committee specifically addressed and 
provided input to management on the 
disclosure and presentation of:
■■ the classification of Barclays' holding 

in Barclays Africa Group Limited as 
an available for sale asset with effect 
from 1 June 2017

■■ the closure of the Barclays Non-Core 
business and the reintegration of the 
remaining businesses and portfolio

■■ the Group Finance Director's 
presentations to analysts

■■ the level of segmental reporting.

The Committee recommended to the 
Board that the 2017 Annual Report and 
financial statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable.

58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Other significant matters
Apart from financial reporting matters the 
Committee has responsibility for oversight of 
the effectiveness of Barclays' internal controls, 
the performance and effectiveness of BIA and 

the performance, objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor. The 
most significant matters considered during 
2017 are described in the table below.

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Internal control
Read more about the 
Barclays' internal 
control and risk 
management 
processes on page 82.

The effectiveness of 
the overall control 
environment, including 
the status of any 
material control issues 
and the progress of 
specific remediation 
plans.

■■ Evaluated and tracked the status of the  
most material control issues identified by 
management through regular reports from 
the Chief Controls Officer, assessed against 
the new Controls Maturity Model created as 
part of the Barclays Internal Controls 
Enhancement Programme (BICEP).

■■ Evaluated the status of specific material 
control issues and associated remediation 
plans, including in particular those relating  
to Model risk, resilience, cyber, compliance, 
technology, credit risk, transaction operations 
and data management which remained open 
as at December 2017 and which were 
reported as ‘on track' to return to satisfactory 
status within agreed timeframes.

■■ Considered the second line of defence role  
in the oversight of operational risk controls, 
including financial controls over operational 
risk.

■■ Evaluated reports on the internal control 
environment from the external auditor.

■■ Discussed lessons learned from specific 
control incidents and how these could be 
applied to Barclays' business globally.

■■ Assessed the progress of the enhancements 
being made to Barclays' Risk and Control 
Self-Assessment (RCSA) process.

■■ Clarified the role and responsibilities of the 
Committee in relation to the split of 
responsibility for operational risk between the 
Committee and the Board Risk Committee.

The Committee welcomed the positive change 
in approach that the BICEP programme had 
driven across the business, notably that the 
first line of defence was now more focused on 
proactively self-identifying control issues 
rather than waiting for them to be highlighted 
by the second or third lines of defence. The 
Committee continued to emphasise the 
importance of a disciplined self-assessment 
by management.

The Committee provided feedback on the 
reporting of material control issues, 
requesting further detail regarding completion 
dates, key milestones and current status for 
significant remediation projects to enable 
closer monitoring and help drive 
accountability at the appropriate management 
level.

The Committee challenged the application of 
the lessons learned process in view of the low 
level of coverage of significant control 
incidents. Management has taken steps to 
enhance the process and ensure compliance. 
Going forward this will be tracked by the Chief 
Controls Office. 

The Committee has continued to use the 
output from the RCSA process in its review  
of the control environment. While providing  
a reasonable overview of the control 
environment, the Committee welcomes 
management's plans to put in place a more 
granular process which should provide greater 
visibility on controls requiring remediation and 
associated risks. This approach was piloted in 
2017 and will be rolled out across the Group  
in 2018.

The effectiveness of the 
control environment 
in each individual 
business, including the 
status of any material 
control issues and the 
progress of specific 
remediation plans.

■■ Assessed reports on individual businesses 
and functions on their control environment, 
questioned the heads of the relevant 
businesses or functions on control concerns 
and scrutinised any identified control failures 
and closely monitored the status of 
remediation plans or workstreams to enhance 
the respective control environments.

■■ Received updates directly from senior 
management, and scrutinised action plans, 
in relation to remediation plans following 
unsatisfactory audit findings.

■■ Reviewed updates from management on the 
Designated Market Activity (DMA) 
remediation plan which addresses Barclays' 
regulatory commitments to the Fed and other 
US and UK regulators in relation to sales and 
trading practices across the FX, Rates and 
other markets related business areas.

The Committee received deep dive control 
environment presentations from Barclays 
International and Barclays UK. These provided 
further detail of management's assessment of 
the business unit control environment and key 
areas of focus, including key controls hot 
spots for the businesses. 

The Committee also received a number of 
presentations from business heads following 
unsatisfactory audit reports. The Committee 
challenged the business regarding their role in 
identifying the control issues and requested 
confirmation from management regarding the 
remediation programme, timeframe and 
accountability for delivery and which are 
subsequently monitored.

The Committee was encouraged that the  
level of resources being devoted to the DMA 
programme now shows that it is on track to 
meet its milestones. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 59

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

The effectiveness of the 
control environment 
in the Chief Operating 
Office (COO) and the 
status and remediation 
of any material control 
issues.

■■ Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO 
control environment, taking the opportunity 
to directly challenge and question functional 
leaders, including the Chief Operating Officer 
on the progress of remediation plans.

■■ Clarified the Committee's ongoing 
responsibility for the oversight of controls 
matters relating to the Group Service 
Company.

■■ The Committee received a deep dive control 
environment presentation from the Chief 
Information Officer regarding Technology 
control issues.

The Committee was pleased to note 
continuing progress over 2017 to address 
control issues in accordance with the agreed 
timescales.

The adequacy of the 
Group's arrangements 
to allow employees 
to raise concerns in 
confidence without 
fear of retaliation and 
the outcomes of any 
substantiated cases.

■■ Considered the results of the ‘Your View' 
Survey in relation to employee views on their 
ability to safely speak up in their business/
function and whether they could report 
instances of dishonest or unethical behaviour 
without fear. 

■■ Received an update on enhancements to 
Barclays' whistleblowing programme 
following the announcement of the PRA/FCA 
investigations and the outcome of the 
independent review that was commissioned 
by the Board. 

■■ Monitored instances of retaliation reports and 
whether any instances had been substantiated.

■■ Monitored whistleblowing metrics, including 
case load and case ageing. 

The Committee discussed the importance of 
ongoing dialogue and regular training to 
ensure that the route for escalations was clear 
and cases were directed to the relevant team 
for investigation and resolution.

The Committee supported the focus on 
training both to colleagues on the channels 
available for, and also managers on how to 
handle, whistleblowing issues. The Committee 
also emphasised the importance of sharing 
positive outcomes of whistleblowing incidents 
where possible. 

The Committee was pleased to note that 
volumes of cases remain proportionate to 
Barclays' size and footprint. 

As Whistleblowing Champion, the Chairman 
of the Committee made an annual report to 
the Board on whistleblowing matters. 

Internal audit The performance of 
BIA and delivery of the 
internal audit plan, 
including scope of 
work performed, the 
level of resources and 
the methodology and 
coverage of the 
internal audit plan.

■■ Scrutinised and agreed internal audit plans 
and methodology and deliverables for 2017 
and the first half of 2018, including reviewing 
the number of audits for delivery following the 
alignment of the Audit Universe to Barclays' 
new structure following structural reform.

■■ Monitored BIA's response to feedback 
received from the PRA as part of its review of 
internal audit, including independence and 
impact, quality and weight of resources, 
productivity and methodology.

■■ Monitored delivery of the agreed audit plans, 
including assessing internal audit resources 
and hiring levels and any impacts on the audit 
plan and reviewing the reasons for the 
postponement of audits in greater depth. 

■■ Debated audit risk appetite and issue 
validation.

■■ Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory audits, 
including discussing the time taken to issue 
audit reports and the reasons for any delays.

■■ Discussed BIA's assessment of the 
management control approach and control 
environment in Barclays UK, Barclays 
International and the functions.

■■ Evaluated the outcomes from BIA's annual 
self-assessment.

■■ Commissioned an independent external 
review of BIA. The reviewer was selected as a 
result of a tender process also run by the 
Committee.

The Committee received semi-annual 
thematic controls reports from BIA and a 
quarterly operational report during 2017. 

The Committee reiterated its support for BIA's 
recruitment plans which reflected significant 
activity during 2017 to ensure appropriate 
audit coverage to support the focus on BIA 
quality across the audit cycle. The Committee 
Chairman provided input into the recruitment 
of the two key roles of Head of Internal Audit 
in Barclays UK and Barclays International.

The Committee observed that the issues arising 
from unsatisfactory audits indicated that there 
was still work to do in embedding the required 
level of control consciousness across the Group 
and ensuring that control exceptions were 
highlighted clearly in management reporting. 
The Committee also requested that senior 
management support BIA in holding 
individuals accountable for failure to remediate 
risks effectively where they had failed BIA 
validation.

The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied 
with the outcome of the self-assessment of BIA 
performance and the independent external 
review, both of which evidenced that the 
function generally conforms to the standards set 
by the Institute of Internal Auditors. It further 
confirmed that it felt able to rely on the work of 
BIA in discharging its own responsibilities. 

The Committee is providing oversight over the 
actions arising from the external review. See 
page 61 opposite for further details of the review.

60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

External audit The work and 
performance of KPMG

■■ Met with key members of the KPMG audit 
team to discuss the 2017 audit plan and agree 
areas of focus.

■■ Assessed regular reports from KPMG on the 
progress of the 2017 audit and any material 
accounting and control issues identified.

■■ Discussed KPMG's feedback on Barclays' 
critical accounting estimates and 
judgements.

■■ Discussed KPMG's draft report on certain 
control areas and the control environment 
ahead of the 2017 year end.

■■ Discussed the approach to KPMG's annual 
report to the PRA which will be issued 
following completion of the 2017 audit. 

■■ Considered the draft SOX controls report and 
the draft audit opinion.

The Committee approved the audit plan and 
the main areas of focus.

The Committee also approved the principal 
services agreement and terms of engagement 
in connection with KPMG's appointment as 
the Group's auditors.

Read more about the Committee's role in 
assessing the performance, effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor and the 
quality of the external audit below.

The Committee also covered the following 
matters:
■■ tracked the progress of specific work being 

done to enhance Barclays' financial crime 
controls, including the function's 
investigation capabilities, in particular in 
relation to prevention and detection 
activities. The Committee also assessed the 
Group Money Laundering Officer's annual 
report

■■ assessed the status of the programme in 
place to ensure Barclays' compliance with 
client assets (CASS) regulatory 
requirements, including approving the 
annual client assets audit report and 
discussing the potential impact of structural 
reform on client assets

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment 
of the Committee's performance and any 
areas of Committee performance that 
needed to be enhanced

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

In addition to these matters, as highlighted 
above in the section of the table headed 
‘Internal audit' the Committee commissioned 
an independent review of BIA which was 
undertaken by Deloitte during the second half 
of 2017. The Chartered Institute of Internal 
Auditors requires an independent external 
review of internal audit functions to be carried 
out at least every five years. Following a 
selection process, the Committee 
commissioned Deloitte to conduct this review 
reporting directly to the Committee. The 
report concluded that: 
■■ BIA demonstrates general conformance 

with the relevant standards and guidelines
■■ BIA has an effective core audit methodology 

which reflects investment in agile ways of 
working and data analytics which has 
helped to drive continuous improvement.  
In this respect it is aligned with or ahead  
of peers

■■ BIA's purpose and remit is clearly defined 
and the function is positioned appropriately 
within the governance framework of the 
organisation/its role as an objective third 
line of defence. This role has been 
supported by the clearer delineation of the 
first line role of the newly created Chief 
Controls Office

■■ the focus on increased headcount in BIA 
will help drive audit capacity and capability 
through enhanced specialist skills/
knowledge. Deloitte reported that BIA cares 
about its people and has created a 
supportive environment in which to work

■■ while there are opportunities to improve 
BIA's impact, they are able to deliver 
effective feedback on the operation of 
controls that address key risks.

The report paid close attention to the matters 
raised in the 2016 PRA letter regarding BIA, 
and Deloitte met with the PRA as part of its 
review. The Committee was satisfied with the 
conclusions drawn in the report, while noting 
the potential development areas identified, in 
particular, extending the use of data analytics. 
BIA has drawn up an action plan in response 
to the review and the Committee will continue 
to monitor the delivery of this plan. 

External auditor
Following an external audit tender in 2015, 
PwC was replaced in 2017 as Barclays' 
statutory auditor by KPMG. Guy Bainbridge of 
KPMG is Barclays' senior statutory auditor 
with effect from the audit for the 2017 
financial year. 

Assessing external auditor effectiveness, 
auditor objectivity and independence and 
non-audit services
The Committee is responsible for assessing 
the effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence of the Group's auditor, KPMG 
and in 2017 the Committee was particularly 
concerned to ensure that the external auditor 
transition period was managed effectively. 
This responsibility was discharged throughout 
the year at formal Committee meetings, 
during private meetings with KPMG and 
through discussions with key executive 
stakeholders. In addition to the matters noted 
above, during 2017 the Committee:
■■ approved the terms of the audit 

engagement letter and associated fees, on 
behalf of the Board

■■ discussed and agreed revisions to the Group 
policy on the Provision of Services by the 
Group Statutory Auditor and regularly 
analysed reports from management on the 
non-audit services provided to Barclays

■■ evaluated and approved revisions to the 
Group policy on Employment of Employees 
or Workers from the Statutory Auditor and 
ensured compliance with the policy by 
regularly assessing reports from 
management detailing any appointments 
made

■■ was briefed by KPMG on critical accounting 
judgements and estimates

■■ assessed any potential threats to 
independence that were self-identified and 
reported by KPMG

■■ reviewed the report on KPMG issued by the 
FRC's Audit Quality Review team.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 61

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Audit Committee report

KPMG's performance, independence and 
objectivity during 2017 were formally assessed 
at the beginning of 2018 by way of a 
questionnaire completed by key stakeholders 
across the Group. The questionnaire was 
designed to evaluate KPMG's audit process 
and addressed matters including the auditor 
transition, quality of planning and 
communication, technical knowledge, the 
level of scrutiny and challenge applied and 
KPMG's understanding of the business. In 
addition, KPMG have nominated a senior 
partner on the audit team reporting to the 
Senior Statutory Auditor to have specific 
responsibility for ensuring audit quality. The 
Committee therefore met with the partner 
concerned without the Senior Statutory 
Auditor in order to receive a report on his 
assessment of audit quality.

Taking into account the results of all of the 
above, the Committee considered that KPMG 
maintained their independence and objectivity 
and the audit process was effective.

Non-audit services
In order to safeguard the Auditor's 
independence and objectivity, Barclays has in 
place a policy setting out the circumstances in 
which the Auditor may be engaged to provide 
services other than those covered by the 
Group audit. The Group Policy on the Provision 
of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor (the 
Policy) applies to all Barclays' subsidiaries and 
other material entities over which Barclays has 
significant influence. The Policy therefore 
included Barclays Africa Group Limited up 
until the point of accounting deconsolidation. 
The core principle of the Policy is that 
non-audit services (other than those legally 
required to be carried out by the Group's 
Auditor) should only be performed by the 
Auditor in certain, controlled circumstances. 
The Policy sets out those types of services that 
are strictly prohibited and those that are 
allowable in principle. Any service types that 
do not fall within either list are considered by 
the Committee Chairman on a case by case 
basis, supported by a risk assessment 
provided by management. 

Under the Policy, the Committee has 
pre-approved all allowable services for which 
fees are less than £100,000, or less than 
£25,000 for tax advisory and tax planning 
services. However, all proposed work, 
regardless of the fees, must be sponsored by a 
senior executive and recorded on a centralised 
online system, with a detailed explanation of 
the clear commercial benefit arising from 
engaging the auditor over other potential 
service providers. The audit firm engagement 
partner must also confirm that the 
engagement has been approved in 
accordance with the Auditor's own internal 
ethical standards and does not pose any 
threat to the Auditor's independence or 
objectivity. All requests to engage the Auditor 
are assessed by independent management 
before work can commence. Requests for 
allowable service types in respect of which the 
fees are expected to meet or exceed the above 
thresholds must be approved by the Chairman 
of the Committee before work is permitted to 

begin. Services where the fees are expected to 
be £250,000 or higher must be approved by 
the Committee as a whole. All expenses and 
disbursements must be included in the fees 
calculation. The thresholds remained the 
same following the annual review of the  
Policy in 2017. 

During 2017, all engagements where expected 
fees met or exceeded the above thresholds 
were evaluated by either the Committee 
Chairman or the Committee as a whole who, 
before confirming any approval, assured 
themselves that there was justifiable reason 
for engaging the auditor and that its 
independence and objectivity would not be 
threatened. No requests to use KPMG were 
declined in 2017 (2016: one). On a quarterly 
basis, the Committee scrutinised details of 
individually approved and pre-approved 
services undertaken by KPMG in order to 
satisfy itself that they posed no risk to 
independence, either in isolation or on an 
aggregated basis. For the purposes of the 
Policy, the Committee has determined that any 
pre-approved service of a value of under 
£50,000 is to be regarded as clearly trivial in 
terms of its impact on Barclays' financial 
statements and has required the Group 
Financial Controller to specifically review and 
confirm to the Committee that any pre-
approved service with a value of £50,000-
£100,000 (or up to £25,000 for tax advisory 
and tax planning services) may be regarded  
as clearly trivial. The Committee undertook a 
review of pre-approved services at its meeting 
in December 2017 and satisfied itself that 
such pre-approved services were clearly trivial 
in the context of their impact on the financial 
statements.

The fees payable to KPMG for the year ended 
31 December 2017 amounted to £48m, of 
which £10m (2016: £17m) was payable in 
respect of non-audit services (KPMG was 
appointed as the Group's statutory auditor 
from the financial year beginning 1 January 
2017). A breakdown of the fees payable to the 
Auditor for statutory audit and non-audit 
work can be found in Note 42. Of the £10m of 
non-audit services provided by KPMG during 
2017, the significant categories of 
engagement, i.e. services where the fees 
amounted to more than £500,000, included:
■■ audit-related services: services in 

connection with CASS audits (while the 
CASS audit fell within the Auditor's scope of 
services, the fees for such services did not 
form part of the global fee arrangements 
and therefore required separate Board Audit 
Committee approval pursuant to the Policy)

■■ quality assurance: support in connection 
with reports on the internal controls 
applicable to IBOR submission processes

■■ transaction support: ongoing attestation 
and assurance services for treasury and 
capital markets transactions to meet 
regulatory requirements, including  
regular reporting obligations and 
verification reports.

The fees paid to PwC for non-audit work 
during 2017, in the period before they resigned 
as the Group's statutory auditor, and after 
they had resigned but before they were 
non-independent of certain Group entities 
(and therefore still fell within the Policy), were 
£3m (2016: £8m). Significant categories of 
engagement approved in 2017 included:
■■ transaction support: ongoing support for 

treasury and capital markets transactions, 
including providing comfort and accounting 
letters to meet trust deed and regulatory 
obligations (this ongoing support 
transitioned to KPMG during 2017).

The Committee also reviewed the level of 
consultancy spend with PwC during 2017, 
which it had asked to be monitored in the 
immediate period after they stepped down as 
the Group's auditors. Work with an estimated 
value of £1m was awarded to PwC during the 
year (this was in addition to the £3m in fees 
paid to PwC for non-audit services referred  
to above).

The Statutory Audit Services for 
Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014
An external audit tender was conducted in 
2015 and the decision was made to appoint 
KPMG as Barclays' external auditor with effect 
from the 2017 financial year, with PwC 
resigning as the Group's statutory auditor  
at the conclusion of the 2016 audit. 

Barclays is in compliance with the 
requirements of The Statutory Audit Services 
for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to 
the frequency and governance of tenders for 
the appointment of the external auditor and 
the setting of a policy on the provision of 
non-audit services. 

62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance in action – Preparation for IFRS 9
A significant activity for the Committee 
during 2017 has been overseeing the  
Group's preparation for the implementation 
of IFRS 9. 

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from 
1 January 2018 and replaces the IAS 39 
accounting standard. The new standard sets 
out the recognition and measurement 
requirements for financial instruments  
and has three parts: classification and 
measurement of financial assets, the 
requirements for impairment of financial 
assets and a hedge accounting model that  
is designed to more closely reflect risk 
management. As permitted, Barclays intends 
to continue with the existing IAS 39 hedge 
accounting model. The new impairment 
accounting model however has a significant 
impact on Barclays and the changes are 
complex and wide ranging; classification and 
measurement also results in a number of 
much less significant changes. IFRS 9 has 
therefore been the subject of significant 
regulatory and market focus. Barclays has 
worked with the industry and regulators to 
agree a transitional framework for regulatory 
capital and disclosures and has taken note 
of the best practice recommendations they 
have issued for the management of the 
transition to the new standard.

The Committee received regular updates on 
the status, judgements and financial impacts 
relating to the implementation of IFRS 9 
during 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. It 
has overseen the steps required for Barclays' 

transition to the new standard, in particular 
the delivery into production of the models 
and controls which are required for its 
implementation. Throughout the process, 
the Committee emphasised to management 
the importance of developing the models  
to support business decision making to 
manage risk and ensure appropriate 
customer outcomes. The Committee 
reviewed the internal governance and 
validation processes in Risk and Finance and 
received regular updates from KPMG on 
their assurance work. The Committee also 
received reports from BIA following the 
audits undertaken in respect of the IFRS 9 
programme, with a number of further audits 
planned for 2018. The Committee also 
reviewed the key estimates made by 
management in considering future 
economic scenarios and the criteria for 
determining when significant credit 
deterioration is observed.

In line with its terms of reference, the 
Committee has been closely involved in the 
review of all material external financial 
reporting relating to IFRS 9 and is focused 
on ensuring clarity, completeness and 
appropriateness of the Group's disclosures, 
particularly given the complexity and 
technical challenges of this standard. The 
Committee reviewed the best estimate 
impact on the Group which was disclosed  
in Barclays' third quarter results and the 
updated IAS 8 disclosures included in the 
2017 financial statements. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 63

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>


Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
The focus of the Committee during 2017 has 
continued to be on assessing the impact of 
important macroeconomic and market 
developments on the risk profile of the Group. 
Credit risk management during 2017 was 
primarily concerned with the level of exposure 
to consumer debt both in the UK and US. In 
the UK, the Committee in 2016 had accepted 
the recommendation of management to 
pursue a conservative approach to managing 
growth and balances in credit card debt. This 
had been prompted by the rising level of 
personal debt in the UK and concerns of 
weaker growth and higher inflation resulting 
from the country's vote to leave the European 
Union. This theme persisted in 2017, as the 
Committee continued to monitor UK economic 
trends, consumer behaviour and portfolio 
performance, and a prudent approach to 
lending was maintained. In the US, in late 
2016, there had been nascent signs of 
weakness in the consumer credit portfolio. The 
Committee had requested management to 
perform detailed analyses of the balances and, 
based on this work, approved in early 2017 the 
sale of a proportion of the weaker segments of 
the portfolio. This action, along with increased 
conservatism during the year in lending and 
portfolio quality, has moderated the impact on 
Barclays of increasing delinquencies among US 
credit card borrowers being seen among US 
credit card lenders. 

While the impairment performance of the 
Bank was largely within plan, wholesale credit 
performance in the UK was slightly weaker 
than in the US. The Bank experienced higher 
impairment in its corporate lending book in 
the UK from the default of certain borrowers 
in the service sector. In the US, improved 
economic conditions, and higher energy 
prices resulted in favourable corporate 
impairment trends compared to 2016. 

In recent years, the Committee has been closely 
supervising the strengthening of the capital 
position of the Bank. Progress continued in 
2017 as the Bank's capital ratios continued to 
improve. In assessing the adequacy of the 

Bank's capital position, the Committee took 
into account current financial performance, the 
impact of expected regulatory developments 
(including structural reform), and estimates of 
the costs of resolving past conduct and 
litigation issues. Likewise, the Committee is 
pleased that the liquidity risk in the Bank has 
been closely monitored and strengthened over 
the past year. 

An important role of the Committee each year 
is to recommend the risk appetite of the Bank 
to the Board: its ability to earn an appropriate 
return while being able to withstand shocks in 
the market and economic environment. In 
addition, the Committee monitors closely the 
assessment of the Bank's performance under 
a variety of regulatory stress tests. We 
evaluate not just the outcome of these 
analyses but the means by which they are 
performed, particularly the assessment of 
model risk. These efforts increased in 2017, as 
the Bank prepared for the first stress test of 
the US Intermediate Holding Company, in 
addition to completing the newly introduced 
Biennial Exploratory Scenario for the Bank of 
England stress test.

The Committee assesses external conditions 
as part of establishing risk appetite. These 
remain challenging and our objective was to 
position the Bank conservatively to deal with 
economic uncertainty. Key themes that 
developed during 2017 with potential to have 
a significant first order impact on Barclays' 
businesses included heightened political and 
economic risk in the UK in the backdrop of 
Brexit negotiations, increased geopolitical risk 
impacting the delicately poised global 
economy, and a shortage of new transaction 
flow in leveraged finance underwriting driving 
tighter terms. Other emerging risks with 
potential to impact Barclays include UK 
property price stress and volatility in financial 
markets after a long period of quiescent asset 
appreciation. The Committee maintains 
regular oversight of exposure to the key risk 
themes it has identified and actions taken by 
management in response. 

During the year, the Committee also evaluated 
the financial and capital impacts of 
operational risk. The Committee has noted, 
and encouraged, the efforts by management 
to improve the Risk and Control Self-
Assessment programme in Operational risk. 
This work is important in an environment of 
heightened cyber risk and increased 
operational complexity as the Bank 
implements structural reform. 

As in past years, the Committee reviewed the 
execution by management of material 
regulatory programmes and initiatives. These 
included the BCBS239 effort to improve the 
quality and reliability of data and information, 
and IFRS 9, a new standard for the estimation 
of credit impairment.

Committee performance 
The performance of the Committee during 
2017 was assessed as part of an internal 
annual Committee effectiveness review. The 
conclusion of my Board colleagues was that 
the Committee is considered to operate 
effectively and that the Board continues to 
have a high degree of confidence in the 
diligence and coverage of the Committee. 
Feedback from the review indicated that the 
Committee was both effective and influential 
in identifying areas of risk where Barclays 
needs to change its performance or adjust its 
risk profile. 

One of the areas identified for improvement 
was to consider whether the Committee 
would benefit from deeper expertise by 
including a member with a risk function 
management background and we will give 
further consideration to this in 2018. The 
review also highlighted the need to ensure 
that the way in which the Committee works 
with the Board Reputation and Board Audit 
Committees continues to capture all 
significant issues effectively while minimising 
any overlap. I continued to work closely with 
my fellow Board Committee Chairmen during 
2017, particularly with the Board Audit 
Committee Chairman in order to clarify the 
responsibility of each committee in relation to 

What we did in 2017
Board Risk Committee report

The Committee continued to monitor UK economic 
trends, consumer behaviour and portfolio performance, 
and a prudent approach to lending was maintained.

64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
 operational risk matters during the year which 
each Committee has a role in overseeing. We 
will work to embed this further in 2018. The 
Committee will also focus on ensuring there is 
a framework in place to ensure clear allocation 
of responsibilities regarding the Committee's 
interaction with the risk committees of 
Barclays UK and Barclays International under 
the new Group structure. 

You can read more about the outcomes of the 
Board effectiveness review on page 78.

Looking ahead
2018 is important for Barclays as it completes 
the restructuring required under the structural 
reform programme. As a result, the firm will 
have two important subsidiary legal entities in 
Barclays UK, the core domestic franchise in the 
UK, and Barclays International, the Corporate 
and Investment Banking and international 
consumer businesses of the firm. These will be 
in addition to the US Intermediate Holding 
Company, which is part of Barclays 
International. The Committee will pay close 
attention to the executive's management of 
risk within and across these entities. 

We expect that credit and employment 
conditions in the UK will continue to be 
uncertain, as future trade and economic 
arrangements with the EU take shape. In the 
US, the impact of the corporate tax reform on 
the health of companies and consumers will 
need assessment. Lastly, the Committee will 
continue to monitor the risk to Barclays from 
volatility in financial markets, which have 
experienced many years of steady asset 
appreciation.

Tim Breedon
Chairman, Board Risk Committee 
21 February 2018

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. Details 
of the skills and experience of the Committee 
members can be found in their biographies on 
pages 47 and 48.

The Committee met nine times in 2017, with 
two of the meetings held at Barclays' New 
York offices. The chart above shows how the 
Committee allocated its time during 2017. 
Committee meetings were attended by 
management, including the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief 
Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Barclays' 
Treasurer and Group General Counsel, as well 
as representatives from the businesses and 
other representatives from the Risk function. 
Representatives from Barclays' external 
auditor, KPMG, and until March 2017, 
representatives from the outgoing external 
auditor, PwC, also attended meetings.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Tim Breedon 9/9
Mike Ashley 9/9
Reuben Jeffery 9/9
Diane Schueneman 9/9
Matthew Lester (from 1 September 2017) 3/3
Steve Thieke (to 10 May 2017) 3/3

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee's main responsibilities include:

■■ reviewing and recommending to the Board 
the Group's financial and operational risk 
appetite

■■ monitoring the Group's financial and 
operational risk profile

■■ commissioning, receiving and considering 
reports on key financial and operational risk 
issues.

The Committee's terms of reference 
are available at  

home.barclays/corporategovernance 

Committee allocation of time (%)
1

2

3

4

2017 2016
1 Risk profile/risk appetite 

(including capital and liquidity 
management) 53 52

2 Key risk issues 26 26
3 Internal control/risk policies 12 8
4 Other (including remuneration 

and governance issues) 9 14

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 65

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Risk Committee report

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below: 
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Risk appetite and 
stress testing, i.e. the 
level of risk the Group 
chooses to take in 
pursuit of its business 
objectives, including 
testing whether the 
Group's financial 
position and risk 
profile provide 
sufficient resilience to 
withstand the impact 
of severe economic 
stress.

The risk context to 
Medium Term Plan 
(MTP), the financial 
parameters and 
constraints and mandate 
and scale limits for 
specific business risk 
exposures; the Group's 
internal stress testing 
exercises, including 
scenario selection and 
financial constraints, 
stress testing themes and 
the results and 
implications of stress 
tests, including those run 
by the Bank of England 
(BoE).

■■ Assessed the risk context for the 2017 MTP, 
including general economic and financial 
conditions and how these had been reflected 
in planning assumptions.

■■ Debated the assumptions, parameters and 
results of the internal stress test of the risk 
appetite of the 2017 MTP.

■■ Discussed and agreed mandate and scale 
limits for Credit, Market and Treasury and 
capital risk.

■■ Evaluated the BoE annual cyclical stress test 
results, and the results of a stress test under 
the BoE biennial exploratory scenario.

■■ Observed and debated regulatory and market 
reaction to the publication of BoE stress test 
results.

■■ Considered and approved internal stress test 
themes and the financial constraints and 
scenarios for stress testing risk appetite for 
the 2018 MTP. 

■■ Considered the Federal Reserve Board's 
feedback on the US Intermediate Holding 
Company's Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) capital plan following the 
submission of the CCAR stress test results.

The Committee recommended the 
proposed risk appetite for 2017 to the Board 
for approval, although noted that this may 
need to be revisited to take account of  
the impact of IFRS 9 in due course. It 
encouraged management to make further 
progress on enhancing infrastructure used 
to conduct the internal stress test. The 
Committee approved the 2017 annual  
stress test results for submission to the  
BoE, including the range of management 
actions and overlays designed to mitigate 
risk impacts. 

Similarly, the Committee approved the 
results of the stress test under the BoE 
biennial exploratory scenario and 
recommended that the results should  
be taken into consideration for strategy 
projections. 

In recommending the internal stress test 
and risk appetite for the 2018 MTP, the 
Committee noted and considered  that the 
severity of the internal stress test had been 
higher than normal, which provided added 
resilience to the various challenges for the 
MTP, such as macroeconomic issues. 

Capital and funding, 
i.e. having sufficient 
capital and financial 
resources to meet the 
Group's regulatory 
requirements and its 
obligations as they fall 
due, to maintain its 
credit rating, to 
support growth and 
strategic options.

The trajectory to 
achieving required 
regulatory and internal 
targets and capital and 
leverage ratios.

■■ Debated, on a regular basis, capital 
performance against plan, tracking the capital 
trajectory, any challenges and opportunities 
and regulatory policy developments.

■■ Assessed, on a regular basis, liquidity 
performance against both internal and 
regulatory requirements.

■■ Regularly monitored capital and funding 
requirements on a legal entity basis.

■■ Assessed the possible implications of 
litigation and investigations on the Group's 
liquidity position, including a review of the 
Bank's liquidity risk control framework.

■■ Monitored the funding risk and capital 
volatility associated with the Barclays 
pension scheme.

The Committee supported the forecast 
capital and funding trajectory and the 
actions identified by management to 
manage the Group's capital position. It 
approved the proposed capital and liquidity 
processes for Barclays UK for submission to 
the regulator as part of its banking licence 
application.

The Committee considered and approved 
the Group capital adequacy assessment 
together with the methodologies and 
results of the reverse stress testing for the 
submission of the 2017 Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) as 
well as the Group's 2017 Individual Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).

Political and economic 
risk, i.e. the impact on 
the Group's risk profile 
of political and 
economic 
developments and 
macroeconomic 
conditions.

The potential impact on 
the Group's risk profile of 
political developments, 
such as elections in other 
European countries, as 
well as continuing to 
monitor the impact of the 
aftermath of the UK's EU 
Referendum.

■■ Monitored progress on actions to mitigate 
the risk of the potential impact of negative 
interest rates in the UK on Barclays.

■■ Monitored the potential impacts of Brexit, 
including a ‘hard' Brexit.

■■ Considered trends in the UK economy, 
including risk of inflation amid negative real 
wage growth.

■■ Continued to monitor the risks relating to 
South Africa while Barclays still had control 
of Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL).

■■ Monitored Barclays' exposures to certain  
products, and with particular focus on 
redenomination risk, and the risk of a single 
country leaving the Euro.

Following the further sell-down of the 
equity stake in BAGL and the subsequent 
proportionate regulatory consolidation,  
the Committee agreed that South Africa 
should be removed as an ongoing risk 
theme, although it continued to maintain 
oversight of any emerging risk. It also 
agreed to remove negative interest rates  
as a key risk theme on the basis that the 
actions previously identified and agreed to 
mitigate the risk were nearing completion.

The Committee suggested that monitoring 
geopolitical risks in Europe should be 
broadened to include other regions, but 
requested that China continue to be 
reported as a separate geopolitical  
risk theme. 

66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Credit risk, i.e. the 
potential for financial 
loss if customers fail to 
fulfil their contractual 
obligations.

Conditions in the UK 
housing market, 
particularly in London and 
the South East; levels of 
UK consumer 
indebtedness, particularly 
in the context of the risk 
of inflation and negative 
real wage growth; and the 
performance of the UK 
and US Cards businesses, 
including levels of 
impairment.

■■ Continued to assess and monitor conditions 
in the UK property market in case of signs of 
stress.

■■ Evaluated how management was tracking 
and responding to rising levels of consumer 
indebtedness, particularly unsecured credit in 
both the UK and US.

■■ Discussed the PRA's statement on consumer 
credit and unsecured lending in the UK, and 
considered Barclays' response to the PRA 
statement.

■■ Scrutinised the performance of the UK and 
US Cards businesses, including the level of 
impairment. 

■■ Reviewed and approved proposals for 
frameworks relating to Securities Financial 
Limits and Maximum Exposure Governance.

■■ Scrutinised a strategic review of business 
activity in the Corporate and Investment 
Bank.

The Committee focused on effective 
collections capability as an important tool 
of risk management. 

The Committee encouraged management 
to carry on with its conservative approach 
to UK lending.

The Committee approved changes to the 
risk appetite levels for US Cards. 

The Committee requested more granular 
detail of the impact of strategy changes on 
risk limits and oversight. 

Operational risk, 
i.e. costs arising from 
human factors, 
inadequate processes 
and systems or 
external events.

The Group's operational 
risk capital requirements 
and any material changes 
to the Group's operational 
risk profile and 
performance of specific 
operational risks against 
agreed risk appetite.

■■ Tracked operational risk key indicators via 
regular reports from the Head of Operational 
Risk.

■■ Debated specific areas of emerging risks, 
including conduct risk, cyber, execution risk, 
technology and data, including the controls 
that had been put in place for managing and 
avoiding such risks.

The Committee focused its attention on the 
financial and capital impacts of operational 
risk. In relation to fraud, it encouraged 
management to further integrate strategy, 
models and operations.

Risk framework and 
governance

The frameworks, policies 
and talent and tools in 
place to support effective 
risk management and 
oversight.

■■ Monitored progress on the implementation 
of an enhanced modelling framework, 
including receiving updates from Barclays 
Internal Audit on findings in relation to 
specific modelling processes.

■■ Tracked the progress of significant risk 
management projects, including the progress 
on achieving compliance with the Basel 
Committee for Banking Supervision 239 
(BCBS239) regulation for risk data 
aggregation principles as well as the roll out 
of the Risk and Control Self-Assessment 
(RCSA) process across the Group. Please see 
the ‘Governance in action' box on page 68  
for further details about the Committee's role 
in overseeing the RCSA process.

■■ Assessed risk management matters raised by 
Barclays' regulators and the actions being 
taken by management to respond.

■■ Endorsed Legal risk and Model risk, as new 
Principal Risks under the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF), forming 
part of the Committee's roles and 
responsibilities in future.

■■ Reviewed the implementation of the ERMF 
during 2017 which had been designed to 
address feedback from the PRA following a 
review of the ERMF.

The Committee requested a gap analysis 
together with an action plan to remediate 
specific weaknesses identified in the 
internal audit in relation to modelling. 

The Committee assessed during the year 
the Group's risk management capability in 
the form of a Risk Capability Scorecard and 
reviewed and approved proposals for the 
external third party evaluation which was 
scheduled to be performed in early 2018.

Remuneration The scope of any risk 
adjustments to be taken 
into account by the Board 
Remuneration Committee 
when making 
remuneration decisions 
for 2017.

■■ Debated, in a joint meeting with the Board 
Reputation Committee, the Risk function's 
view of 2017 performance, making a 
recommendation to the Board Remuneration 
Committee on the financial and operational 
risk factors to be taken into account in 
remuneration decisions for 2017.

The Committee discussed the report of the 
Chief Risk Officer and considered the 
proposal put forward in relation to the 
impact of relevant risk factors in 
determining 2017 remuneration decisions, 
noting that it should also include positive 
events such as the 2017 Banking Standards 
Board report which had reported 
improvements on 2016.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 67

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

In addition, the Committee also covered the 
following matters in 2017:
■■ assessed Barclays' exposures to the 

leveraged finance market, general 
conditions in that market and approved  
an updated leveraged finance framework 
which would be submitted annually to  
the Committee for approval

■■ was briefed by PwC on main risk issues 
identified during the 2016 year-end audit, 
specifically impairment, post-model 
adjustments, forbearance control issues, 
key valuation judgements (including in 
relation to the ESHLA portfolio), and key 
assumptions used in the pension scheme 
liabilities 

■■ requested and evaluated a report on 
partnership programmes in the US Cards 
business with a focus on risk profile and 
credit quality

■■ considered a report on the effectiveness of 
the Committee and any areas of the 
Committee's performance that could be 
improved

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

What we did in 2017
Board Risk Committee report

Governance in action –  
Risk and Control Self-
Assessment programme
A key focus of the Committee in 2017 was 
oversight of the implementation of a revised 
Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) 
programme. The RCSA enhancement 
programme was established as part of 
Barclays' commitment to the effective 
management the Group's Operational risk 
and extend both the scope of coverage 
across a wider range of risks, and also 
improve the granularity of management's 
risk and control assessments of business 
processes. The programme is the firm-wide 
process led approach for management to 
identify and regularly assess material 
inherent risks and their associated controls, 
in order to mitigate these risks and reduce 
the likelihood and/or severity of losses to 
the firm from a Risk event.

In 2017, a number of pilot RCSAs were rolled 
out across the Group in addition to the 
regular RCSA process, which was also 
enhanced. Improvements were also made in 
the assessment of inherent risk values and 
the aggregation process for risk and control 
assessments across risk types. During the 
year, the Committee reviewed progress in 
terms of the RCSAs completed across the 
Group, and also considered the next steps 
in the review process and the results of the 
residual risk assessments. Based on the 
results of the pilot RCSAs undertaken, the 
Committee was satisfied that the process will 
improve management's understanding of 
the risk and control environment, so they can 
prioritise and remediate ineffective controls 
where required.

Following completion of the pilot RCSA 
programme, the Committee considered the 
ways in which the RCSA programme could 
be enhanced for the wider implementation 
of the programme in 2018. The Committee 
considered specific revisions of the 2017 
RCSA programme with the aim of:

■■ improving the identification of inherent 
risk, control effectiveness and residual 
risk by going into detail at a more 
granular process level

■■ increasing the degree of independent 
challenge provided by all Three Lines of 
Defence

■■ increasing the granularity of 
assessments for a further set of pilot 
RCSAs to estimate inherent risk at 
activity level by risk type, together with 
the identification and assessment of 
detailed operating controls by activity 
and residual risk.

The Committee will continue to work with 
management in 2018 on further refining 
and enhancing the RCSA programme.

68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
What we did in 2017
Board Reputation Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
This is my second report to you as Chairman of 
the Board Reputation Committee. At the 
conclusion of my last report I commented that 
the Committee, by way of its membership, 
executive engagement and reporting 
processes, had built a strong foundation on 
which to base its future operations and drive 
Barclays to be a governance leader in conduct, 
culture and reputation matters. This strong 
foundation has ensured that the Committee 
has been well positioned during 2017, a time of 
significant organisational change for the Group, 
to ensure that our people, whether within 
Barclays UK, Barclays International or the Group 
Service Company, continue to demonstrate 
behaviours and conduct that are consistent 
with the Barclays Values.

On two occasions during 2017 the Committee 
extended an invite to representatives of the 
Banking Standards Board (BSB) to present and 
discuss the outcomes of their 2016 and 2017 
assessments of Barclays. As an independent 
third party with insights across the banking 
industry as a whole, the Committee attaches 
significant value to the insights offered by the 
BSB and I would like to extend my personal 
thanks to Dame Colette Bowe and her team at 
the BSB for their continuing work to promote 
the highest standards of behaviour in UK 
banking and restore public trust in the sector. 
We were encouraged to hear that the results 
had generally improved between 2016 and 
2017 and were particularly pleased to see how 
strongly the Barclays Values still resonate with 
our colleagues. The Committee also carefully 
considered the BSB's feedback on results 
relating to colleague resilience and you will 
find an outline of our discussion on colleague 
well-being on page 71.

One of the key challenges faced by the 
Committee is how to maintain oversight of 
Group Conduct and Culture matters as a 
whole, without overlooking the cultural 
differences that, naturally and quite rightly, 
exist between our different operating 
businesses and support functions. During the 
year the Committee actively discussed this 
challenge and, in an attempt to address this, 
I rebalanced the Committee's agenda by 
introducing business and functional ‘Deep 
Dive' sessions into each meeting. The Deep 
Dives allow the Committee to understand the 
conduct, culture and customer satisfaction 
issues being faced in specific areas of the 
business and the actions undertaken to 
address them. While consideration of our 
well-refined dashboards and Reputation risk 
reports ensure that Group-level metrics, 
challenges and initiatives remain clearly visible 
and subject to Committee consideration and 
challenge. You can read about some of the 
Deep Dives undertaken by the Committee 
during 2017 on the following pages.

A significant output from the Committee 
during 2017 resulted from discussions around 
Barclays' historic commitments to the 
financing of certain fossil fuels projects, which 
resulted in a decision to develop a more 
proactive approach to the management of 
sustainability issues across the Barclays 
business. I would encourage you to refer to 
the ‘Governance in action' box on page 74 for 
further details on this initiative.

Committee performance
Through the process of the annual Board 
effectiveness review, which confirmed the 
continued effectiveness of the Committee, the 
ongoing evolution of the Committee's role and 
the increased impact that it had during the 
last year was clearly acknowledged. An area 
that the review identified for further 
consideration was the continued oversight  
of Conduct and Reputation risk matters in the 
post-structural reform corporate structure, 
which I will ensure is addressed by the 
Committee ahead of April 2018.

Looking ahead
Finally, I would like to record my thanks to 
Mike Roemer, who stepped down as Group 
Chief Compliance Officer in October 2017, for 
his outstanding contribution to the work of 
the Committee during his tenure in that role.  
I would also like to thank Diane de Saint 
Victor, who stepped down from the 
Committee on her retirement from the Board 
in May 2017. I look forward to working with 
our new Committee member, Mike Turner 
and, subject to regulatory approval, our new 
Group Chief Compliance Officer, Laura 
Padovani, as we continue to support the 
delivery of the Board's collective vision of the 
Barclays Values.

Sir Gerry Grimstone
Chairman, Board Reputation Committee  
21 February 2018

The Committee has been well positioned during 2017,  
a time of significant organisational change for the Group,  
to ensure that our people, whether within Barclays UK,  
Barclays International or the Group Service Company,  
continue to demonstrate behaviours and conduct that  
are consistent with the Barclays Values.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 69

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. During 
2017, Diane de Saint Victor stepped down 
from the Committee and the Barclays Board 
with effect from 10 May 2017.

The Committee met four times during 2017 
and the chart on the left shows how it 
allocated its time. Committee meetings were 
attended by representatives from 
management, including the Group Chief 
Executive, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief 
Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Group 
General Counsel, Group Chief of Staff, Group 
HR Director and the Heads of Corporate 
Communications, Citizenship and Reputation, 
as well as senior representatives from the 
businesses and other functions. A 
representative from KPMG, Barclays' external 
auditor, attended each Committee meeting 
during the year and representatives from the 
BSB attended two meetings during 2017.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Sir Gerry Grimstone 4/4
Mike Ashley 4/4
Mary Francis 4/4
Dambisa Moyo 4/4
Diane de Saint Victor (to 10 May 2017) 1/1

Committee role and responsibilities
The principal purpose of the Committee is to:
■■ support the Board in promoting its 

collective vision of Barclays' purpose, values, 
culture and behaviours

■■ ensure, on behalf of the Board, the efficiency 
of the processes for identification and 
management of Conduct and Reputation 
risk

■■ oversee Barclays' conduct in relation to its 
corporate and societal obligations, including 
setting the guidance, direction and policies 
for Barclays' approach to customer and 
regulatory matters and Barclays' Citizenship 
Strategy, including advising the Board and 
management on these matters.

The Committee's terms of reference 
are available at 

home.barclays/corporategovernance 

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below:

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Conduct risk Monitoring the risks that can arise 
from the inappropriate supply of 
financial services, including 
instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct. 

■■ Discussed updates from management 
on Conduct risk and considered 
performance against Conduct risk 
indicators at each meeting.

■■ Discussed the specific Conduct risks 
associated with certain business areas 
and the status of initiatives in place to 
address those risks and further 
strengthen the culture of the business.

■■ Received reports from Barclays Internal 
Audit (BIA) in respect of internal audit 
activities on conduct risk management 
matters, including details of any 
unsatisfactory audit reports and 
remediation steps identified.

■■ Discussed and approved the Conduct 
Risk Framework, with Conduct risk 
having been identified as a Principal Risk 
under the Barclays Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF). 

■■ Received forward looking information on 
regulatory developments, including the 
issuance of new consultations by 
regulators, that might have a Conduct 
risk impact on Barclays in the future.

■■ Approved the annual Compliance Plan.
■■ Considered and approved the proposed 

methodology for calculating Conduct 
risk adjustments to incentive pools.

In line with its recategorisation under the 
ERMF, the Committee adopted Board-
level oversight of financial crime risk and 
conducted a Deep Dive into this area. 
The Conduct dashboard report was 
updated to include financial crime 
information and metrics, and the 
Committee was encouraged by 
management's open and transparent 
approach to engaging with regulators on 
financial crime matters.

The Committee considered the differing 
regulatory requirements placed on the 
UK and US Cards businesses and have 
suggested that a ‘Barclays view' should 
overlay the requirements of local 
regulations to ensure that all retail facing 
businesses within the Group operate 
within a framework that prioritises the 
concept of ‘Treating Customers Fairly'.

During discussion of the realignment of 
businesses between Barclays UK and 
Barclays International, the Committee 
encouraged management to take 
advantage of opportunities presented by 
structural reform to address some areas 
of Conduct risk by harmonising policies 
and operations, in areas such as 
collections and affordability assessments. 

The Committee considered an update 
from BIA on the use of Conduct risk 
information by legal entities within the 
Group and their assessment of reporting 
mechanisms and the escalation of issues 
up the organisational hierarchy. 

What we did in 2017
Board Reputation Committee report

Committee allocation of time (%)
1

2
3

4

5

2017 2016*
1 Conduct and compliance 36 33
2 Culture 20 21
3 Customer satisfaction 14 6
4 Citizenship 16 13
5 Brand and other Reputation risk 14 27
* 2016 figures have been rebased according to the 

significant matters considered by the Committee in 
2017.

70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Cultural progress Reviewing management's 
progress on embedding a 
values-based culture across the 
organisation.

■■ Debated Culture dashboards presented 
at each meeting and the progress being 
made to embed cultural change across 
Barclays globally.

■■ Received regular updates on colleague 
engagement metrics and the results of 
employee YourView surveys and 
considered proposed changes to the 
YourView methodology.

■■ Approved the adaption of the Culture 
dashboard to include the monitoring of 
cultural attributes across the firm. 

■■ Considered and discussed with 
representatives of the BSB the results of 
their 2016 and 2017 Annual Reviews of 
Barclays. 

■■ Considered a Deep Dive analysis on 
culture within Barclaycard UK, including 
the process and challenges of integrating 
the UK Cards business into Barclays UK.

■■ Considered feedback from the FCA on 
the Conduct and Culture dashboards.

■■ Received information on management's 
initiatives to improve colleague 
well-being and resilience, including 
actively encouraging employees to work 
dynamically and providing a supportive 
environment in which colleagues feel 
able to talk about the impacts of stress 
and mental health concerns.

■■ Considered draft disclosures on the 
Gender Pay Gap within the Group and 
industry comparators.

Through consideration of the Culture 
dashboards and YourView results, 
the Committee was encouraged by the 
consistently strong sustainable 
engagement scores achieved 
throughout 2017. Improvements have 
been made in the area of colleague 
enablement, however the Committee 
appreciated management's 
acknowledgement that further 
improvement is still required in this 
area, notably in terms of reducing 
perceived bureaucracy throughout 
the organisation. 

The Committee discussed the 
importance of a culture in which 
colleagues feel able to speak up and 
raise concerns. Particular attention has 
been paid to whistleblowing metrics 
throughout the year and, on 
recommendation of the Committee, 
the YourView survey system now 
contains a direct link to Barclays' 
whistleblowing resources with the 
intention of further encouraging and 
supporting employees to report 
instances of unethical or inappropriate 
behaviour.

Additional and more detailed 
information is becoming available to 
the Committee, by way of reporting on 
cultural attributes, on what employees 
perceive to be the most prevalent 
facets of Barclays' organisational 
culture. It is intended that this 
information be used to monitor 
attainment of a set of desired attributes 
and facilitate further discussion and 
action in order to achieve this.

By way of discussion of the FCA's 
feedback on Barclays' dashboards, 
the Committee acknowledged that the 
dashboards are just one of a number 
of key management information tools 
used to set its agenda and facilitate an 
ongoing discussion with management 
on culture which leads, in some cases, 
to deliberate actions being taken by 
the Group and business executive 
committees. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 71

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Reputation Committee report

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Customer satisfaction Ensuring fair outcomes for 
customers by monitoring 
complaints volumes, the standard 
and quality of complaints handling 
processes and other relevant 
metrics.

■■ Debated Complaints dashboards and 
performance against key indicators at 
each meeting.

■■ Gave consideration to the impact that 
matters, such as an effective 
communication channel, have on 
customer complaints volumes.

■■ Considered the quality of the processes 
in place to address and resolve customer 
complaints.

■■ Monitored trends in the underlying 
causes of complaints and considered 
forward looking analysis to identify 
events (both industry-wide and 
Barclays-specific) which could influence 
the volume and timings of complaints.

■■ Considered the differing complaints 
profiles of the Barclays UK and Barclays 
International businesses and the actions 
being undertaken to positively improve 
the customer journey by utilising 
complaints management information 
(MI).

■■ Requested further insight into the first 
line management of customer 
complaints and conducted a Deep Dive 
into Barclays UK's complaints handling 
processes (Barclays UK receives the 
majority of Barclays' customer 
complaints given its retail focus). 

■■ Requested additional Deep Dives on 
areas of the Barclays International 
business that have a retail customer base 
and considered the complaints profiles 
of those businesses.

■■ Considered the progress being made by 
relevant businesses to improve their 
respective net promoter score (NPS).

The Committee was pleased to see a 
general downward trend in the number 
of complaints received by Barclays 
during 2017. 

While the Committee still receives a 
Group-wide report on complaints, 
underlying reporting has been refined 
in line with organisational changes to 
ensure the Committee receives a clear 
view on the complaints metrics of 
Barclays UK and Barclays International 
respectively. The Committee made 
recommendations to management, in 
the context of the structural reform 
programme, in respect of ensuring a 
consistent ‘Barclays' customer 
experience is received by retail clients 
whether they are being serviced by 
Barclays UK or Barclays International.

The Committee developed its 
understanding of how complaints MI is 
mapped by Barclays UK in order to 
identify root causes and received 
information on the strategic initiatives 
being undertaken to address them. The 
Committee's Deep Dive also led to 
further refinement of the Barclays UK 
Complaints dashboards to include 
complaints volumes by channel. The 
analysis of the data revealed a high 
level of customer satisfaction with 
Barclays' online bank offering. 

The Committee was pleased to see an 
increase in Barclays UK's NPS during 
the course of 2017 and support 
management's objective of further 
increasing NPS to ensure Barclays UK 
remains competitive against challenger 
and start-up banks.

In relation to Barclays International's 
business areas, the Committee was 
encouraged to hear that complaints 
volumes were at an all-time low  
within Barclaycard US but noted 
management's desire to improve the 
business's net promoter score against 
key US competitors. The Committee 
also considered the approach being 
taken by Barclays Partner Finance to 
identify potential areas of future 
complaints and proactively reaching 
out to customers to resolve issues 
before complaints arise. 

72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Citizenship Monitoring progress against the 
Shared Growth Ambition 
(Barclays' Citizenship plan for 
2016-2018) and the effectiveness 
of policy statements on Citizenship 
matters.

■■ Considered the Citizenship dashboards 
presented at each meeting and assessed 
status updates on the Shared Growth 
Ambition.

■■ Reviewed Barclays' ratings and relative 
peer ranking in external Environmental 
Social Governance (ESG) benchmarks 
and tracked external perceptions on 
Citizenship through stakeholder and 
media analysis. 

■■ Received information on new Citizenship 
initiatives such as the #Digisafe 
campaign which aims to educate 
individuals to better protect themselves 
against digital fraud.

■■ Received an update from Barclays' Global 
Head of Financial Crime in respect of the 
function's development of intelligence-
led initiatives to combat fraud.

■■ Reviewed and recommended the 
approval of Barclays' Statement on 
Modern Slavery.

The Committee was very pleased to see 
that Citizenship metrics demonstrate a 
high level of colleague pride in the 
contribution Barclays makes to the 
community and society.

The Committee is very encouraged by 
management's decision to dedicate 
resource to financial crime, skills and 
employability and digital empowerment 
initiatives that provide benefits not only 
to Barclays and its customers, but to 
the banking industry and UK 
population more generally.

Read more about Barclays' approach 
to Citizenship on pages 21 and 22.

Reputation and brand Ensuring that the Barclays brand 
is proactively managed and 
Reputation risks and issues are 
identified and managed 
appropriately.

■■ Reviewed Reputation risk updates  
from management, receiving specific 
information on those issues deemed  
to constitute the most significant 
Reputation risks and issues in each 
quarter. 

■■ Regularly evaluated the measures being 
taken to enhance the Barclays brand and 
to understand, and propose action to 
improve, where appropriate, external 
perceptions of the Bank.

■■ Considered whether the process for 
identifying, managing and overseeing 
Reputation risk was functioning 
effectively.

The Committee approved the 
Reputation Risk Framework, confirming 
that Reputation risk is now a Principal 
Risk under the ERMF. Significant 
discussion also took place in respect 
of the correlation between cultural 
indicators, conduct outcomes and 
Reputation risk. 

The Committee requested further 
refinement of the Reputation risk 
reporting received to include sentiment 
analysis of media coverage and metrics 
on Barclays' social media presence.

The Corporate Relations priorities  
for 2017 were pre-approved by the 
Committee and fulfilment of those 
priorities kept under review throughout 
the year. This process improved 
management's ability to more 
effectively understand and monitor 
external perceptions of Barclays among 
key stakeholders.

The Committee requested that 
management undertake work to 
further refine the components of 
Reputation risk, clarify the process for 
identifying risks, enhance management 
oversight and give consideration to 
how the overall process can be better 
communicated. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 73

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Reputation Committee report

The Committee also covered the following 
matters:
■■ received a report on management's annual 

review of the effectiveness of compliance 
with the Volcker Rule (restrictions on 
proprietary trading and certain fund 
investments by banks operating in the US)

■■ received a report from management on 
Barclays' Swap Dealer Annual Compliance 
Report

■■ discussed the outcome of an externally 
facilitated review on Barclays' compliance 
with the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and its comparative 
performance against its peers.

■■ approved, from a Reputation risk 
perspective, a proposal to restructure 
certain intra-group shareholdings and 
enhance capital utilisations

■■ assessed and discussed a report on the 
Committee's performance

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference.

Read more about Barclays' risk 
management on pages 119 and 120 and 
in our Pillar 3 Report, which is available 

online at barclays.com/annualreport

Governance in action – 
Responding to stakeholder 
concerns
During the year, the Committee gave 
consideration to Barclays' exposure to 
environmental, social and sustainability 
matters through its business relationships 
and challenged management to establish a 
more formal and proactive approach to 
documenting policy positions and 
guidelines in relevant sectors.

In response to recommendations from the 
Committee, management commenced 
work to review Barclays' involvement and 
practices in certain ‘sensitive sectors' and 
is in the process of drawing up proposals 
for sector-specific policies that will 
articulate the forward-looking intentions of 
Barclays in these areas. The Committee will 
be reviewing and approving these policies 
during 2018 and look forward to reporting 
on their content and implementation in 
next year's Annual Report. 

The Committee considers that the 
establishment of sector-specific policies 
and guidelines will be a significant step in 
further enhancing the role that Barclays 
plays in the wider business community and 
believe they will improve the quality of the 
Company's future reporting on climate 
change and other matters of social and 
environmental interest.

74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Dear Fellow Shareholders
In 2017 we made significant progress towards 
our new Group governance structure in 
preparation for structural reform and the 
stand up of our ring-fenced bank in 2018, with 
appointments having been made to both the 
Barclays UK and Barclays International 
divisional boards. We are delighted to 
welcome the new directors to those boards, 
led by Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chairman of 
Barclays International (subject to regulatory 
approval) and Sir Ian Cheshire as Chairman of 
Barclays UK (which will become our ring-
fenced bank). We continued to refine the 
details of how the Group Board will interact 
with those boards and the boards of our other 
strategically significant subsidiaries, building 
on the Governance Guiding Principles we 
created in 2016. We look forward to working 
collaboratively with them to ensure that the 
roles and responsibilities of each board are 
clear, while providing effective governance of 
the Group and protection of shareholder 
interests.

In view of the significant changes to our 
Group corporate structure, and always bearing 
in mind the long-term strategy of the Group, 
the Committee continues to regularly consider 
our Board composition and succession plans, 
ensuring it comprises the right balance of 
diversity, skills and experience to provide the 
strategic oversight needed to steer the 
business of the Group. We conducted 
searches for non-executive Directors in 2017 
and were pleased to appoint Matthew Lester 
and Mike Turner CBE to the Board, in addition 
to the appointment of Sir Ian Cheshire. 
Matthew, Mike and Sir Ian each bring with 
them significant board-level experience and 
you can find out more about their background 
and relevant skills and experience that they 
bring to the Board in their profiles on pages 47 
and 48. 

I have previously emphasised that it is a key 
part of our role to be satisfied that there are 
proper processes in place for executive 
succession, and this continues to remain 
another key consideration of the Committee. 
We closely monitored the status and progress 

of the Barclays Talent and Succession strategy, 
providing input and guidance to management 
to ensure we attract and retain the best talent 
for the Group. As a Committee, we also 
discuss ways in which we can develop and 
nurture high performing individuals within 
senior management to strengthen our 
succession pipeline, including the use  
of ex-officio posts to relevant executive 
committees to give those individuals  
exposure to Group matters and leadership. 

Our people are the driving force in sustaining 
our business and we firmly believe in the 
benefits of having a diverse workforce. I am 
proud to see the number and variety of 
diversity and inclusion initiatives we have at 
Barclays to develop and support colleagues, 
and ultimately to encourage them to grow 
their careers with us. While we recognise that 
diversity is not only about gender, it is 
nevertheless an important element of diversity 
and we have set ourselves a target of 33% 
female representation on the Board by 2020, 
which as a Board we remain committed to 
achieving. Please see page 79 for further 
information about our approach to diversity at 
both Board and Group Executive Committee 
levels.

Committee performance
The performance of the Committee was 
assessed as part of the annual Board 
effectiveness review and I am pleased to 
report that the results show that it is 
performing effectively, with the role and 
responsibilities of the Committee clear and 
well understood. One area identified for 
consideration is that the Committee should be 
mindful of ensuring that all non-executive 
Directors receive the same flow of information 
in relation to decisions and discussions by the 
Committee, which I will address in my updates 
to the Board as Chairman of the Board 
Nominations Committee, and outside of 
scheduled Board meetings to the extent 
appropriate. The report on the Board 
effectiveness review can be found on page 78.

Looking ahead
In 2018 we look forward to the execution of 
our new Group structure and to the 
implementation of robust processes providing 
clear, consistent and effective corporate 
governance for the Group post-structural 
reform. Throughout this period of change, 
the Committee will continue to ensure that 
we have the right people leading the strategic 
direction of Barclays, motivating colleagues 
and sustaining our business over the long 
term.

John McFarlane
Chairman, Board Nominations Committee  
21 February 2018

What we did in 2017
Board Nominations Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

In 2017 we made significant progress towards our new 
Group governance structure in preparation for 
structural reform and the stand up of our ring-fenced 
bank in 2018, with appointments having been made to 
both the Barclays UK and Barclays International 
divisional boards.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 75

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Nominations Committee report

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. John 
McFarlane, as Chairman of the Board, is also 
Chairman of the Committee. Mike Ashley, Tim 
Breedon, Crawford Gillies, and Sir Gerry 
Grimstone, being the Chairmen of each of the 
other Board Committees, and Sir Ian Cheshire 
(as Chairman of Barclays UK) and Reuben 

Jeffery III, are also members of the Committee. 
Details of the skills and experience of the 
Committee members can be found in their 
biographies on pages 47 and 48.

During 2017 there were three meetings of the 
Committee, including one held at Barclays' 
New York offices. Attendance by members at 
Committee meetings is shown below and the 
chart to the left shows how the Committee 
allocated its time. Committee meetings were 
attended by the Group Chief Executive, with 
the Group HR Director, the Head of Talent, and 
the Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion 
attending as appropriate.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
John McFarlane 3/3
Mike Ashley 3/3
Tim Breedon 3/3
Crawford Gillies 3/3
Sir Gerry Grimstone 3/3
Reuben Jeffery III 3/3
Sir Ian Cheshire (from 9 May 2017) 0/1*

* Sir Ian Cheshire did not attend owing to prior 
commitments, but his views and comments were 
made available to, and considered by, the Committee. 

Committee role and responsibilities
The principal purpose of the Committee is to:
■■ support and advise the Board in ensuring 

that the composition of the Board and its 
Committees is appropriate and enables 
them to function effectively

■■ examine the skills, experience and diversity 
on the Board and plan succession for key 
Board appointments, planning ahead to 
deal with upcoming retirements and to fill 
any expected skills gaps

■■ provide Board-level oversight of the Group's 
talent management programme and 
diversity and inclusion initiatives

■■ agree the annual Board effectiveness review 
process and monitor the progress of any 
actions arising

■■ ensure the Board has appropriate corporate 
governance standards and practices in 
place and keep these under review to 
ensure they are consistent with best 
practice.

The Committee's terms of reference 
are available at 

home.barclays/corporategovernance 

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below: 

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Board and Board 
Committee 
composition

The membership of the Barclays 
PLC Board and the current and 
future composition of the Board 
and its Committees.

■■ Reviewed the Board skills matrix and 
discussed the key skills and experience 
needed on the Board in the context of 
future strategic direction, including any 
areas requiring strengthening for skills 
and succession and conducted a search 
for non-executive Directors.

■■ Considered the skills and composition 
of the Board in a post-structural reform 
environment.

■■ Reviewed the membership, size and 
composition of Board Committees.

The Committee identified the need to 
appoint an additional non-executive 
Director with chairman or CEO experience 
to add further depth to the Board. 

During the year it recommended for 
appointment to the Board Mike Turner 
CBE, Sir Ian Cheshire (brought on as 
Chairman of Barclays UK) and Matthew 
Lester (following the Committee's 
previous recommendation of an additional 
non-executive Director with accounting 
and auditing experience). The Committee 
agreed that a search would be conducted 
for an additional female non-executive 
Director to promote diversity of gender on 
the Board and in recognition of the 
Board's commitment to achieving 33% 
female representation on the Board by 
2020.

The Committee agreed to review the role, 
purpose and composition of the Group 
Board once the Barclays UK and Barclays 
International Boards were fully 
constituted and operational boards. It 
noted that changes to Board Committee 
membership may take place once those 
boards, as well as the Group Service 
Company board, were operational so that 
a holistic view can be taken on 
appropriate memberships and cross-
memberships of boards and committees. 

Please refer to page 77 for more details 
of the Board's approach to the 
recruitment of new Directors.

Committee allocation of time (%)
1

2

3

4

5

2017 2016
1 Corporate governance matters 8 20
2 Board and Committee 

composition 42 36
3 Succession planning and talent 33 31
4 Board effectiveness 11 8
5 Other 6 5

76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Board composition of 
Barclays UK and 
Barclays International 
in preparation for the 
legal entity stand up 
in 2018 under the 
structural reform 
programme

The composition of the Barclays 
UK and Barclays International 
divisional boards.

■■ Considered the board skills matrix for 
Barclays UK and Barclays International.

■■ Considered updates on the 
establishment of boards of Barclays UK 
and Barclays International and discussed 
the suitability of potential candidates 
identified to join those boards.

The Committee, in reviewing the skills 
matrices for Barclays UK and Barclays 
International following appointments 
to those boards, is of the view that 
there do not appear to be any skills 
gaps across the two boards, subject to 
the recruitment of a non-executive 
Director with retail banking experience 
to the Barclays UK board. It discussed 
opportunities for interaction between 
the Barclays PLC, Barclays UK and 
Barclays International boards and 
agreed to consider opportunities for 
engagement at board and committee 
level going forward.

Executive succession 
planning and talent 
management

Succession planning and talent 
management at Group Executive 
Committee level.

■■ Considered updates on, and progress 
being made against, Barclays' Talent 
and Succession strategy, including 
monitoring diversity within the talent 
pipeline.

■■ Discussed updates from the Group HR 
Director on Group Executive Committee 
succession plans, including assessing 
emergency cover, the existing talent 
pipeline and any potential gaps.

■■ Considered individuals identified as 
potential Group Executive Committee 
successors and discussed next steps for 
their development.

■■ Considered the succession plans for the 
most critical business unit and functional 
roles and discussed how to develop the 
high performing individuals identified.

The Committee welcomed the progress 
made in the Group Executive 
Committee succession planning, but 
noted that there was further work to be 
done in ensuring we are able to recruit 
and retain the best talent for the Group. 
It noted that the boards of Barclays UK 
and Barclays International, once 
established, would be able to take a 
more granular view of succession to 
some of the roles. The Committee also 
discussed the use of ex officio posts to 
both the Group Executive Committee 
and business executive committees to 
give senior individuals exposure to 
Group matters as a further way of 
developing those individuals to ensure 
a healthy pool of potential candidates 
in the succession pipeline. 

In addition, the Committee covered the 
following matters:
■■ considered the results of, and the action 

plan in respect of, the 2016 Board 
effectiveness review and the process for the 
2017 Board and Committee effectiveness 
review

■■ reviewed and confirmed the effectiveness 
of the processes for authorising Directors' 
conflicts of interests and Directors' 
induction and training

■■ considered a report on the effectiveness of 
the Committee

■■ reviewed the Committee's terms of 
reference.

Appointment and re-election of Directors
Board and Board Committee composition 
is a standing item for consideration at each 
Committee meeting. This includes the 
consideration of potential new non-executive 
Director appointments, both in respect of 
planned succession for known retirements 
and as a result of the ongoing review of the 
skills and experience needed on the Board in 
order for it to continue to operate effectively.

The Committee frequently considers a skills 
matrix for the Board, which identifies the core 
competencies, skills, diversity and experience 
required for the Board to deliver its strategic 
aims and govern the Group effectively. Certain 
attributes identified in the skills matrix have a 
target weighting attached to them and these 
are regularly updated over time to reflect the 

needs of the Group. The Committee reviews 
the skills matrix when considering a new 
appointment to the Board, as well as 
reviewing the current and expected Board and 
Board Committee composition. This helps to 
determine a timeline for proposed 
appointments to the Board.

When recruiting a new non-executive Director, 
the specific skills that are needed are 
identified, for example, an individual with 
international experience, or recent history 
serving on a particular board committee. 
The Charter of Expectations contains the key 
competencies and skills expected of non-
executive Directors, and these, in addition 
to other details such as expected time 
commitment, will be included in an individual 
specification. The Committee as a whole then 
considers curriculum vitae and references for 
potential candidates. Any candidates who are 
shortlisted will be interviewed by members 
of the Committee and, if applicable, key 
shareholders and Barclays' regulators may be 
asked to provide feedback on the proposed 
appointment. The Board is updated on the 
progress of the recruitment and interview 
process, and any feedback from the interviews 
is provided to the Board alongside a 
recommendation for appointment.

Executive search firms Egon Zehnder and 
Buchanan Harvey were instructed to assist 
with the search for non-executive Directors 
during 2017. Neither firm has any other 
connection to Barclays, other than to provide 
recruitment services. Open advertising for 

Group Board positions was not used in 2017, 
as the Committee believes that targeted 
recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting 
for Board positions. Both of the firms used for 
non-executive Director recruitment have 
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms, which include 
measures designed to improve gender 
diversity on boards.

In 2017, Barclays announced the appointments 
of Sir Ian Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike 
Turner CBE as non-executive Directors, with 
each Director bringing specific skills and 
experience to fill the role previously identified 
by the Committee as well as all having 
extensive board-level experience (see pages 
47 and 48 for details of each Director's 
experience and background). Diane de Saint 
Victor and Steve Thieke both stood down 
from the Board with effect from the end of the 
2017 AGM.

The Directors in office at the end of 2017 were 
subject to an effectiveness review, as 
described on page 78. Based on the results of 
the review the Board accepted the view of the 
Committee that each Director proposed for 
election or re-election continues to be 
effective and that they each demonstrated the 
level of commitment required in connection 
with their role on the Board and the needs of 
the business.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 77

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2017
Board Nominations Committee report

Review of Board and Board Committee 
effectiveness
Process
Each year, an evaluation is conducted on the 
effectiveness of the Board, the Board 
Committees and individual Directors. Full 
external evaluations of Board effectiveness have 
been undertaken in the past two years. In view 
of the impending new Group corporate 
structure, following which another external 
evaluation will be carried out once the structure 
has had time to settle, the Board decided to 
focus this year's review on individual Director 
performance to monitor the Board's progress 
and to inform the agenda of the next full 
external review process. 

Independent Board Evaluation facilitated the 
effectiveness review for 2016 and was engaged 
again to conduct the 2017 Board review, also 
again led by Ffion Hague. Independent Board 
Evaluation is an independent external 
consultancy with no other connection to 
Barclays. Consistent with previous years, Ffion 
Hague carried out interviews with the Directors 
to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the 
Board throughout 2017. 

Independent Board Evaluation issued a report 
to the Board on the findings of the 
effectiveness review. In addition, the 
Chairman was provided with a report and 
feedback on the performance of each of the 

Directors, and the Senior Independent 
Director received a report on the Chairman. 

Following consideration of the findings of the 
2017 Board and Committee effectiveness 
reviews, the Directors remain satisfied that the 
Board and each of the Board Committees are 
operating effectively.

Outcomes of 2017 review
Board performance is considered to be improving, 
with more effective and insightful questions being 
asked in Board debates and a better balance being 
struck between support and challenge. In 
particular, the Directors were positive about:
■■ the preparations for structural reform
■■ project execution, such as the remediation 

of control issues and preparations for Brexit
■■ the recruitment of high quality new Board 

members and members for the boards of 
Barclays UK and Barclays International. 

The Directors were also pleased with progress 
on strengthening the senior executive team 
and deepening relationships between 
Directors and key executives. The executive 
team feels well supported by the Board and is 
grateful for that support.

Business performance is a concern for Board 
members, and the Board is focused on 
improving this within the Group. This will be a 
particular area of focus in 2018. The 

restructuring of the Group in April 2018 is also 
a significant focus for the Group and regarded 
as a major challenge. The Board is cognisant 
of the challenges of ensuring the new Group 
corporate structure is effective and efficient, 
and is conscious of the need to maintain good 
governance overall and minimise duplication. 
The interaction between the Group Board and 
the boards of our strategically significant 
subsidiaries will be closely monitored and 
thought will be given to identifying 
opportunities for engagement with subsidiary 
board members to develop and maintain a 
good working relationship. The impact of the 
new structure on Board work and governance 
will be a key area of review for the 2018 
external evaluation of the Board.

Committee effectiveness
The 2017 Board Committee effectiveness 
review was carried out internally, led by the 
Company Secretary. A questionnaire was 
circulated to all Committee members with a 
report of the findings of the effectiveness 
review provided to the Chair of each 
Committee as well as an update to the Board. 
The conclusion from the Committee reviews is 
that the Committees are working well, and 
you can read more about the findings for each 
Board Committee within each Committee 
Chairman's letter. 

Progress against 2016 findings
Following the 2016 Board effectiveness review facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, a number of findings were identified and the summary 
below sets out the Board's progress against those actions in 2017. 

2016 findings Actions taken/findings in 2017

Board priorities Create regular broad-based risk oversight Board sessions  
to allow Directors to look across the risk spectrum. 

Schedule a debate on the role of the Board and non-
executive Directors and link the conclusions to revised Board 
objectives to help focus the Board's agenda.

Time was scheduled for free-ranging discussion around risk, 
strategy and the Bank's long term plan during the Board's 
annual strategy session. 

The review reported that Board discussion was more focused 
and struck a balance between support and challenge.

Board/executive 
relationship

Positive and constructive relations between the Board  
and the new management team were reported.

The review found that the relationship between the Board and 
executive management deepened during 2017, with executive 
management feeling well supported.

Optimise 
communication 
and collaboration*

Continue to optimise the information flow between 
Directors in the run-up to structural reform in 2018.

Consider agreeing common values for the Group and  
the banking subsidiary boards in the new structure.

The Chairman continued to hold meetings with non-executive 
Directors ahead of Board meetings to brief them on current issues. 

Further principles and practices were developed for 
interaction between the Board and the boards of Barclays UK 
and Barclays International, building on the Governance 
Guiding principles created in 2016.

Board 
appointment  
process

Continue to refine the Board skills matrix to ensure it aligns  
with the Group's strategy and informs the succession plan for 
key Board roles. Implement more regular reporting to the Board  
on potential non-executive Directors under consideration.

The Board skills matrix and succession plan were kept under 
review, with separate skills matrices established for the 
Barclays UK and Barclays International boards. Board 
members were updated on recruitment progress and details 
of potential candidates.

Director  
induction

Continue to enhance the Director induction process with a 
focus on providing broader governance training to anyone 
who has not previously served on a UK PLC board.

The induction programme was reviewed to factor in tailored 
governance training for new Directors and was extended also 
to directors of Barclays UK, Barclays International and the 
Group Service Company.

Reporting  
to the Board†

Review reporting arrangements on strategy implementation 
and review the KPIs or dashboard reports for key initiatives.

The form and content of reporting to the Board was reviewed 
and refreshed by management to ensure that the Board is 
provided with appropriate management information on 
strategy and execution priorities.

Notes
* In 2016 this finding was named ‘Greater awareness of Board Committee work'.
† In 2016 this finding was named ‘Dealing more strategically with global regulation'.

78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Diversity on the Board and Group Executive Committee
The Board continues to have regard to 
the Hampton-Alexander Review 
recommendations to improve gender 
diversity among FTSE leadership teams and 
the Parker Review recommendations on the 
ethnic diversity of UK boards.

The Committee recognises the importance 
of ensuring that there is broad diversity 
inclusive of, but not limited to, gender, 
ethnicity, geography and business 
experience on the Board, while continuing to 
recommend all appointments based on 
merit in the context of the skills and 
experience required. Barclays' approach to 
Board diversity is set out in full in the Board 
Diversity Policy, which can be found online 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance. 
Our Board Diversity Policy recognises that a 
truly diverse Board will include and make 
good use of the differences in skills, 
experience, background, race, gender and 
other distinctions brought by each Director, 
with such differences being considered in 
determining the optimum composition of 
the Board. When executive search firms are 
engaged to assist with the recruitment of a 
new Director, diversity is identified as a key 
factor. In addition, the external Board 
evaluation considered diversity when 
assessing the effectiveness of the Board. The 
Barclays Board target of 33% female 
representation among Directors by 2020 is 
formally reflected in the Board Diversity 
Policy as well as being noted in the Board 
skills matrix. Noting the current gender 
diversity balance on the Board, and 
as mentioned earlier in this report, the 
Committee has commissioned the 
recruitment of a further female non-
executive Director to strengthen the diversity 
of gender on the Board. Further details 
about the current diversity balance of the 
Board can be found on page 46. 

The Committee is also mindful of the current 
gender diversity balance of the Group 
Executive Committee, but is satisfied with 
the overall level of diversity across that 
Committee standing at 33% and with the 
percentage of women among the direct 
reports of Group Executive Committee 
members strengthening our succession 
pipeline. Further, Barclays is committed to 
achieving 33% female representation among 
the Group Executive Committee and their 
direct reports by 2020, and is currently 
reporting 25% female representation among 
this population. In 2017, the Group Executive 
Committee continued the initiative 
introduced by the Group Chief Executive in 
2016 of having one ex-officio position on the 
Committee to broaden the scope of 
perspectives and contributions made, with 
each appointee serving for a four-month 
rotation. 

With regard to ethnic diversity, the Board 
considers that Barclays is currently 
well-positioned in terms of representation at 
Board level and also at Group Executive 
Committee level when taking into account 
the Parker Review definition (being 
“individuals of Black, East Asian, Latin 
American, Middle Eastern or South Asian 
ethno-cultural backgrounds”). The Board 
will continue to monitor the overall diversity 
of our leadership pipeline to ensure we are 
attracting the broadest spectrum of leaders 
to Barclays.

During 2017, the Committee received regular 
updates from the Global Head of Diversity 
and Inclusion covering the full spectrum of 
Barclays' diversity and inclusion agenda, 
including the actions being taken regarding 
dynamic working, colleague inclusion, 
workforce diversity, mental health awareness 
and social mobility. The Committee is 
pleased with the progress being made and 
discussed ways in which inclusion might be 
tracked. Management is continuing to work 
on drawing together indicators across the 
Group to develop a metric to measure 
progress on inclusion.

Further details about the current 
diversity balance of the Board can be 
found on page 46. More details on 

Barclays diversity and inclusion strategy and 
the progress made can be found on page 89.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 79

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)
As Barclays is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange we apply the main principles of 
the Code and comply with the Code's 
provisions. A copy of the Code can be 
found at frc.org.uk. Corporate Governance 
in Barclays contains a full description of 
our corporate governance practices and  
is available online at home.barclays/
corporategovernance. For the year ended 
31 December 2017, and at the date of this 
report, we are pleased to confirm that we 
complied in full with the Code.

Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules
By virtue of the information included in this 
Governance section of the Annual Report 
we comply with the corporate governance 
statement requirements of the FCA's 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. 
Certain additional information that is required 
to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.6 can be 
found on pages 85 to 88.

New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow 
UK corporate governance practices instead  
of those applied in the US. However, any 
significant variations must be explained in 
Barclays' Form 20-F filing, which can be 

accessed from the Securities and Exchange 
Commission's EDGAR database or on our 
website, home.barclays.

Leadership
As highlighted earlier in this report, the Board 
of Directors is responsible for promoting the 
highest standards of corporate governance 
in Barclays. We act in a way that we consider 
promotes the success of Barclays for the 
benefit of shareholders as a whole, and are 
accountable to the shareholders for creating 
and delivering sustainable value. We are 
responsible for setting strategy and overseeing 
its implementation, and also ensuring that 
management maintains an effective system 
of internal control. 

For further information about the role of the 
Board and its responsibilities, together with 
the Board governance framework, please see 
page 50.

Roles on the Board 
Executive and non-executive Directors share 
the same duties and are subject to the same 
constraints. However, in line with the 
principles of the Code, a clear division of 
responsibilities has been established. The 
Chairman is responsible for leading and 
managing the work of the Board, while 
responsibility for the day-to-day management 
of Barclays has been delegated to the Group 

Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is 
supported in this role by the Group Executive 
Committee. Further information on 
membership of the Group Executive 
Committee can be found on page 49.

As a Board we have set out our expectations 
of each Director in Barclays' Charter of 
Expectations. This includes role profiles and 
the behaviours and competencies required for 
each role on the Board, namely the Chairman, 
Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, non-executive Directors, executive 
Directors and Committee Chairmen. The 
Charter of Expectations is reviewed annually 
to ensure it remains relevant and up to date.  
It is published on home.barclays/
corporategovernance to ensure that there is 
complete transparency of the standards we 
set for ourselves.

Attendance
As members of the Board of Directors we are 
expected to attend every Board meeting. In 
2017, we attended both scheduled and 
additional Board meetings, as recorded in the 
table below. The Chairman met privately with 
the non-executive Directors ahead of each 
scheduled Board meeting, and if, owing to 
exceptional circumstances, a Director was not 
able to attend a Board meeting they ensured 
that their views were made known to the 
Chairman in advance of the meeting.

Board attendance Independent 

Scheduled 
meetings 

eligible 
to attend

Scheduled 
meetings 
attended

% 
attendance 

Additional 
meetings 

eligible 
to attend 

Additional 
meetings 
attended

% 
attendance

Group Chairman
John McFarlane On appointment 8 8 100 7 7 100

Executive Directors
Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 8 8 100 4 4 100
Jes Staley Executive Director 8 8 100 4 4 100

Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Tim Breedon CBE Independent 8 8 100 7 6 86
Sir Ian Cheshire Independent 6 5 83 4 4 100
Mary Francis CBE Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Crawford Gillies Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Sir Gerry Grimstone Senior Independent Director 8 8 100 7 7 100
Reuben Jeffery III Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Matthew Lester Independent 3 3 100 1 1 100
Dambisa Moyo Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Diane Schueneman Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100
Mike Turner CBE* Independent – – n/a – – n/a

Former Directors
Diane de Saint Victor Independent 3 3 100 3 3 100
Steve Thieke Independent 3 3 100 3 3 100

Secretary
Stephen Shapiro 2 2 100 – – n/a

Former Secretaries
Lawrence Dickinson 1 1 100 1 1 100
Claire Davies 5 5 100 6 6 100

Note
* Mike Turner CBE joined the Board with effect from 1 January 2018. As part of his induction programme, he attended the December 2017 Board meeting.

How we comply

80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Board Committee cross-membership 
The table below shows the number of cross-memberships of our non-executive Directors across our Board Committees.

Board Audit  
Committee

Board Nominations 
Committee

Board Remuneration 
Committee

Board Reputation 
Committee

Board Risk Committee 4 3 1 1

Board Reputation Committee 1 2 2

Board Remuneration Committee 2 2

Board Nominations Committee 3

Effectiveness
Composition of the Board 
In line with the requirements of the Code, 
a majority of the Board are independent 
non-executive Directors. The Board currently 
comprises a Chairman, who was independent 
on appointment, two executive Directors and 
eleven non-executive Directors. We consider 
the independence of our non-executive 
Directors annually, using the independence 
criteria set out in the Code and by reviewing 
performance against behaviours that we have 
identified as essential in order to be considered 
independent. As part of this process, the 
Board keeps under review the length of tenure 
of all Directors, which is a factor that is 
considered as part of its deliberations when 
determining independence of our non-
executive Directors. The independence criteria 
can be found in Corporate Governance in 
Barclays at 
home.barclays/corporategovernance.

The Board Nominations Committee considers 
Board succession planning and regularly 
reviews the composition of the Board and the 
Board Committees to ensure that there is an 
appropriate balance and diversity of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge. 
The size of the Board is not fixed and may be 
revised from time to time to reflect the 
changing needs of the business and the Board 
Nominations Committee will consider the 
balance of skills and experience of current 
Directors when considering a proposed 
appointment. 

Each year we carry out an effectiveness review 
in order to evaluate our performance as a 
Board, as well as the performance of each of 
the Board Committees and individual 
Directors. This annual review assesses 
whether each of us continues to discharge 
our respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively and is considered when deciding 
whether individual Directors will offer 
themselves for election or re-election at the 
AGM. More information on the 2017 Board 
effectiveness review can be found on page 78.

Our biographies containing our relevant skills 
and experience, Board Committee membership 
and other principal appointments can be 
found on pages 47 and 48. Details of changes 
to the Board in 2017 and year to date are 
disclosed on page 85.

The service contracts for the executive 
Directors and the letters of appointment for 
the Chairman and non-executive Directors are 
available for inspection at our registered office.

Time commitment
We are expected to allocate sufficient time 
to our role on the Board in order to discharge 
our responsibilities effectively. This includes 
attending, and being well-prepared for, all 
Board and Board Committee meetings, as well 
as making time to understand the business, 
meet with executives and regulators, and 
complete ongoing training. As stated in our 
Charter of Expectations, time commitment is 
agreed with each non-executive Director on 
an individual basis. Set out below is the 
average expected time commitment for the 
role of non-executive Directors and the other 
non-executive positions on the Board. For 
these additional positions there is an 
expectation that, in order to effectively fulfil 
extra responsibilities, additional time 
commitment is required.

Role Expected time commitment
Chairman 80% of a full time position
Deputy 
Chairman

At least 0.5 days a week

Senior 
Independent 
Director 

As required to fulfil the role

Non-
executive 
Director

30 days a year (membership of 
one Board Committee included, 
increasing to 40 days a year 
if a member of two Board 
Committees)

Committee 
Chairmen

At least 60 days a year 
(including non-executive 
Director time commitment)

The Chairman must commit to expend 
whatever time is necessary to fulfil his duties 
and, while this is expected to be equivalent to 
80% of a full time position, his Chairmanship 
of the Group, and leadership of the Board, 
has priority over other business commitments. 
In exceptional circumstances, we are all 
expected to commit significantly more time 
to our work on the Board.

Induction
On appointment to the Board, all Directors 
receive a comprehensive induction which is 
tailored to the new Director's individual 
requirements. The induction schedule is 
designed to quickly provide the new Director 
with an understanding of how the Group 
works and the key issues that it faces. The 
Company Secretary consults the Chairman 
when designing an induction schedule, giving 
consideration to the particular needs of the 
new Director. When a Director is joining a 
Board Committee the schedule includes an 
induction to the operation of that committee.

On completion of the induction programme, 
the Director should have sufficient knowledge 
and understanding of the nature of the 
business, and the opportunities and 
challenges facing Barclays, to enable them to 
effectively contribute to strategic discussions 
and oversight of the Group.

Following their appointment in 2017, Sir Ian 
Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike Turner 
CBE received induction programmes on 
joining the Board. In line with normal practice, 
they met with the Company Secretary, the 
current non-executive Directors and members 
of the Group Executive Committee and certain 
other senior executives. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 81

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

How we comply

Training and development
In order to continue to contribute effectively 
to Board and Board Committee meetings, 
Directors are regularly provided with the 
opportunity to take part in ongoing training 
and development and can also request 
specific training that we may consider 
necessary or useful. As part of our annual 
performance review with the Chairman, we 
discuss any particular development needs that 
can be met through either formal training or 
meeting with a particular senior executive. In 
2017, Directors received ongoing training in 
relation to legal and regulatory developments, 
including in relation to the requirements of, 
and responsibilities under, the UK Senior 
Managers Regime.

Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and the Articles of Association the Board has 
the authority to authorise conflicts of interest. 
Directors are required to declare any potential 
or actual conflicts of interest that could 
interfere with their ability to act in the best 
interests of the Group. The Company 
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which 
is a record of actual and potential conflicts, 
together with any Board authorisation of the 
conflict. The authorisations are for an 
indefinite period but are reviewed annually by 
the Board Nominations Committee, which also 
considers the effectiveness of the process for 
authorising Directors' conflicts of interest. The 
Board retains the power to vary or terminate 
the authorisation at any time.

Information provided to the Board
The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out in 
our Charter of Expectations, confirms his 
responsibility for ensuring that members of 
the Board receive accurate, timely and 
high-quality information. In particular, we 
require information about Barclays' 
performance to enable us to take sound 
decisions, monitor effectively and provide 
advice to promote the success of the 
Company. Working in collaboration with the 
Chairman, the Company Secretary is 
responsible for ensuring good governance and 
consults Directors to ensure that good 
information flows exist and that the Board 
receives the information it requires in order to 
be effective.

Throughout the year both the executive 
Directors and senior executives keep the 
Board informed of key developments in the 
business through regular reports and updates. 
These are in addition to the presentations that 
the Board and Board Committees receive as 
part of their formal meetings. Directors are 
able to seek independent and professional 
advice at Barclays' expense, if required, to 
enable Directors to fulfil their obligations as 
members of the Board.

Accountability 
Risk management and internal control 
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that 
management maintains an effective system 
of risk management and internal control and 
for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.

Barclays is committed to operating within a 
strong system of internal control that enables 
business to be transacted and risk taken 
without exposing itself to unacceptable 
potential losses or reputational damage. 
Barclays has an overarching framework that 
sets out the Group's approach to internal 
governance, The Barclays Guide, which 
establishes the mechanisms and processes by 
which management implements the strategy 
set by the Board to direct the organisation, 
through setting the tone and expectations 
from the top, delegating its authority and 
assessing compliance.

A key component of The Barclays Guide is 
the Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF). The purpose of the ERMF is to 
identify and set minimum requirements in 
respect of the main risks to achieving the 
Group's strategic objectives and to provide 
reasonable assurance that internal controls 
are effective. The key elements of the Group's 
system of internal control, which is aligned to 
the recommendations of The Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission, Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (2013 COSO), are set out in the 
risk control frameworks relating to each of 
the Group's Principal Risks. As well 
as incorporating our internal requirements, 
these reflect material Group-wide legal and 
regulatory requirements relating to internal 
control and assurance.

Effectiveness of internal controls 
Key controls are assessed on a regular basis 
for both design and operating effectiveness. 
Issues arising out of business risk and control 
assessments and other internal and external 
sources are examined to identify pervasive 
themes. Where appropriate, control issues are 
reported to the Board Audit Committee (BAC). 
In addition, the BAC receives regular reports 
from management, BIA and the Finance, 
Compliance and Legal functions covering, in 
particular, financial controls, compliance and 
other operational controls.

Risk management and internal 
control framework 
The ERMF is the Group's internal control 
framework, which is refreshed annually. 
There are eight Principal Risks under the 
ERMF: Credit risk, Market risk, Treasury and 
capital risk, Operational risk, Model risk, 
Reputation risk, Conduct risk and Legal risk.

The BAC formally reviews the system of 
internal control and risk management 
annually. Throughout the year ended 
31 December 2017 and to date, the Group 
has operated a system of internal control that 
provides reasonable assurance of effective 
operations covering all controls, including 
financial and operational controls and 
compliance with laws and regulations. 
Processes are in place for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Principal Risks 
facing the Group in accordance with the 
‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting' published by the Financial 
Reporting Council.

The review of the effectiveness of the system 
of risk management and internal control is 
achieved through a four-step approach which 
is centred on reviewing the effectiveness of 
The Barclays Guide and its component parts:

1.  Control meetings of the business and 
functional executive committees monitor, 
review and challenge the effective 
operation of key risk management and 
control processes, including the results of 
audits and reviews undertaken by BIA 
(which include assessments of the control 
environment and management control 
approach) and examinations and 
assessments undertaken by our primary 
regulators, on an ongoing basis as part of 
the system of risk management and 
internal control. The remediation of issues 
identified within the control environment is 
regularly monitored by management and 
the BAC.

2.  Testing of the control meetings, held by 
the executive committees, provides 
assurance that the committees are 
effectively overseeing the control 
environment and associated risk 
management and internal control 
processes.

3.  The owners of the key governance 
processes which comprise The Barclays 
Guide undertake a review to confirm that 
processes have been implemented.

4.  The annual review of the system of risk 
management and internal control brings 
together the results of the activities 
completed in steps 1 to 3 to ensure that 
each of the key processes have been 
effectively reviewed.

82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Regular reports are made to the Board 
covering risks of Group-level significance. 
The Board Risk Committee and the Board 
Reputation Committee examine reports 
covering the Principal Risks as well as reports 
on risk measurement methodologies and risk 
appetite. Further details of risk management 
procedures and potential risk factors are given 
in the Risk review and risk management 
sections on pages 117 to 204.

Controls over financial reporting 
A framework of disclosure controls and 
procedures is in place to support the approval 
of the Group's financial statements. Specific 
governance committees are responsible for 
examining the Group's financial reports and 
disclosures to ensure that they have been 
subject to adequate verification and comply 
with applicable standards and legislation. 
These committees report their conclusions  
to the BAC which debates its conclusions  
and provides further challenge. Finally,  
the Board scrutinises and approves results 
announcements and the Annual Report, and 
ensures that appropriate disclosures have 
been made. This governance process ensures 
that both management and the Board are 
given sufficient opportunity to debate and 
challenge the Group's financial statements 
and other significant disclosures before they 
are made public.

Management's report on internal control 
over financial reporting 
Management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control 
over financial reporting. Internal control over 
financial reporting is a process designed under 
the supervision of the principal executive  
and principal financial officers to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of 
financial statements for external reporting 
purposes in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union and issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB). Internal control over financial reporting 
includes policies and procedures that pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions and dispositions of assets; 
provide reasonable assurances that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements  
in accordance with IFRS and that receipts  
and expenditures are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of 
management and the respective Directors; 
and provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use or disposition of assets  
that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.

Internal control systems, no matter how well 
designed, have inherent limitations and may 
not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness 
to future periods are subject to the risk that 
internal controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.

Management has assessed the internal 
control over financial reporting as of 
31 December 2017. In making its assessment, 
management utilised the criteria set out in the 
2013 COSO framework and concluded that, 
based on its assessment, the internal control 
over financial reporting was effective as of 
31 December 2017.

The system of internal financial and 
operational controls is also subject to 
regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas. 
Further information on supervision by the 
financial services regulators is provided under 
Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review 
section on pages 197 to 204.

Changes in internal control over 
financial reporting 
There have been no changes in the Group's 
internal control over financial reporting that 
occurred during the period covered by this 
report which have materially affected or  
are reasonably likely to materially affect  
the Group's internal control over  
financial reporting.

Remuneration
The Board has delegated responsibility  
for the consideration and approval of the 
remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, 
executive Directors, other senior executives 
and certain Group employees to the Board 
Remuneration Committee. The Board as a 
whole, with the non-executive Directors 
abstaining, considers annually the fees paid 
to non-executive Directors. Information on 
the activities of the Board Remuneration 
Committee in 2017 can be found in the 
Remuneration report on pages 93 to 116, 
which forms part of the corporate  
governance statement.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 83

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

How we comply

Stakeholder engagement 

Investor engagement
The Board is committed to promoting 
effective channels of communication with 
our shareholders and upholding good 
corporate governance as a means of building 
stronger and more engaged relationships 
with them. Our comprehensive Investor 
Relations engagement with the market helps 
us to understand investor views about 
Barclays, which are communicated 
regularly to the Board. Our shareholder 
communication guidelines, which underpin 
all investor engagement, are available on our 
website at home.barclays/investorrelations.

Institutional investors
In 2017, our Investor Relations engagement 
with institutional investors took place 
throughout the year, both following our 
quarterly results as well as outside of the 
reporting cycle. This allowed the opportunity 
for existing and potential new investors to 
engage with Barclays regularly, promoting 
dialogue on longer-term strategic 
developments as well as on the recent 
financial performance of the Group.

The Directors, in conjunction with the senior 
executive team and Investor Relations, 
participated in varied forms of engagement, 
including investor meetings, seminars and 
conferences across many geographic 
locations, reflecting the diverse nature of our 
equity and debt institutional ownership. 
Divisional management also presented 
extensively to investors, promoting greater 
awareness and understanding of our 
operating businesses.

During 2017, discussions with investors were 
focused on the completion of our 
restructuring, including the sell-down of our 
interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited to 
14.9% and the closure of Non-Core in June, 
as well as our revised Group financial targets 
and our plans to achieve them within the 
specified timelines. Investors were also kept 
informed about progress on structural 
reform, in particular the set up of the UK 
ring-fenced bank, which we expect to take 
place in the second quarter of 2018.

Investor meetings focused on corporate 
governance also took place throughout the 
year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, other Board representatives and the 
Company Secretary.

We held conference calls/webcasts for our 
quarterly results briefings and an in-person 
presentation for our 2016 full year results in 
March 2017, all hosted by the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director. In 
addition, the Group Finance Director held 

a quarterly breakfast briefing for sell-side 
analysts, with a transcript of the discussions 
uploaded to our website. For fixed income 
investors we held conference calls at our full 
year and half year results, hosted by our 
Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.

The Investor Relations section of our website 
is an important communication channel 
that enables the effective distribution of 
information to the market in a clear and 
consistent manner. Executive management 
presentations, speeches and, where possible, 
webcast replays are uploaded to our website 
on a timely basis. 

Private shareholders
During 2017, we continued to communicate 
with our private shareholders through our 
shareholder mailings. Shareholders can also 
choose to sign up to Shareview so that they 
receive information about Barclays and their 
shareholding directly by email. On a practical 
level, over 60,000 shareholders did not cash 
their Shares Not Taken Up (SNTU) cheque 
following the Rights Issue in September 
2013. In 2017, we continued the tracing 
process to reunite these shareholders with 
their SNTU monies and any unclaimed 
dividends and by the end of the year, we had 
returned approximately £200,000 to our 
shareholders, in addition to the £1.65m 
returned in 2016 and £2.2m in 2015. Each 
year we launch a Share Dealing Service 
aimed at shareholders with relatively small 
shareholdings for whom it might otherwise 
be uneconomical to deal. One option open to 
shareholders is to donate their sale proceeds 
to ShareGift. As a result of this initiative, 
more than £61,000 was donated in 2017, 
taking the total donated since 2015 to 
over £299,000.

Our AGM
The Board and the senior executive team 
continue to consider our AGM as a key date 
for shareholder engagement. The AGM 
provides us with our main opportunity 
to engage with shareholders, particularly 
our private shareholders, on the key issues 
facing the Group and any questions they may 
have. A number of Directors, including the 
Chairman, were available for informal 
discussion either before or after the meeting. 
All resolutions proposed at the 2017 AGM, 
which were considered on a poll, were 
passed with votes ‘For' ranging from 85.67% 
to 99.95% of the total votes cast.

The 2018 AGM will be held on Tuesday 
1 May 2018 at the QEII Conference Centre 
in London. The Notice of AGM can be found 
in a separate document, which is sent out 
at least 20 working days before the AGM 
and also made available at 

home.barclays/agm. Voting on the 
resolutions will again be by poll and the 
results will be announced via the Regulatory 
News Service and made available on our 
website on the same day. We encourage any 
shareholders who are unable to attend on 
the day to vote in advance of the meeting via 
home.barclays/ investorrelations/vote or 
through Shareview (shareview.co.uk).

2017 engagement timeline

Corporate Governance 
engagement ahead of 
2018 AGM 

Corporate Governance 
engagement ahead of 
2017 AGM 

2016 full year 
results presentation 
and fixed income 
conference call/
webcast

Analyst briefing on 
2016 results

Analyst briefing on 
2017 half year 
results

Analyst briefing on 
Q3 2017 results

Q3 2017 results 
conference call/
webcast

Q4

Q3

Q2

Q1

2016 full year results

Q1 2017 results 
conference call/
webcast

Analyst briefing on 
Q1 2017 results

Q1 2017 results 
announcement

2017 AGM

2017 half year results 
announcement

Q3 2017 results 
announcement

Reporting events Stakeholder engagement

2017 half full year 
results and fixed 
income conference 
call/webcast

84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Other statutory information
 Governance: Directors' report

The Directors present their 
report together with the 
audited accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 
2017. 
Other information that is relevant to 
the Directors' report, and which is 
incorporated by reference into this report, 
can be located as follows:

Page

Employee involvement 89
Policy concerning the employment 
of disabled persons 90
Financial instruments 258 
Hedge accounting policy 246
Remuneration policy, including 
details of the remuneration 
of each Director and Directors' 
interests in shares 93 
Corporate governance report 43
Risk review 117
Viability statement 40

Disclosures required pursuant to Listing 
Rule 9.8.4R can be found on the following 
pages:

Page

Long-term incentive schemes 123
Waiver of Director emoluments 112
Allotment for cash of 
equity securities 297
Waiver of dividends 85

Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 
requires the Directors to present a Strategic 
report in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. The information can be found 
on pages 2 to 41. 

The Company has chosen, in accordance with 
section 414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006, 
and as noted in this Directors' report, to 
include certain matters in its Strategic report 
that would otherwise be disclosed in this 
Directors' report. 

An indication of likely future developments 
may be found in the Strategic Report.

The particulars of important events affecting 
the Company since the financial year end can 
be found in the Strategic report and Note 29, 
Legal, competition and regulatory matters.

Profit and dividends 
Statutory loss after tax for 2017 was £894m 
(2016: profit £2,828m). The final dividend 
for 2017 of 2.0p per share will be paid on 
5 April 2018 to shareholders whose names 
are on the Register of Members at the close 
of business on 2 March 2018. With the interim 
dividend totalling 1.0p per ordinary share, paid 
in September 2017, the total distribution for 
2017 is 3.0p (2016: 3.0p) per ordinary share. 
The interim and final dividends for 2017 
amounted to £509m (2016: £757m). 

For 2018, Barclays anticipates resuming a total 
cash dividend of 6.5p per share, subject to 
regulatory approvals. 

Shareholders may have their dividends 
reinvested in Barclays by joining the Barclays 
PLC Scrip Dividend Programme (the 
Programme). The Programme enables 
shareholders, if they wish, to receive new 
fully-paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC 
instead of a cash dividend, without incurring 
dealing costs or stamp duty.

The nominee company of certain Barclays' 
employee benefit trusts holding shares in 
Barclays in connection with the operation 
of the Company's share plans has lodged 
evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by 
it that have not been allocated to employees. 
The total amount of dividends waived during 
the year ended 31 December 2017 was 
£0.68m (2016: £2.6m).

Barclays understands the importance of the 
ordinary dividend for our shareholders. 
Barclays is therefore committed to 
maintaining an appropriate balance between 
total cash returns to shareholders, investment 
in the business, and maintaining a strong 
capital position. Going forward, Barclays 
intends to pay an annual ordinary dividend 
that takes into account these objectives, and 
the medium-term earnings outlook of the 
Group. It is also the Board's intention to 
supplement the ordinary dividends with 
additional returns to shareholders as and 
when appropriate.

The Board notes that in determining any 
proposed distributions to shareholders, 
the Board will consider the expectation 
of servicing more senior securities.

Board of Directors 
The names of the current Directors of Barclays 
PLC, along with their biographical details, 
are set out on pages 47 and 48 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference. 
Changes to Directors during the year are set 
out in the table below.

Name Role

Effective date of 
appointment/
resignation

Sir Ian Cheshire Non-executive 
Director

Appointed 
3 April 2017

Matthew Lester Non-executive 
Director

Appointed 
1 September 
2017

Mike Turner CBE Non-executive 
Director

Appointed 
1 January 2018

Diane de 
Saint Victor

Non-executive 
Director

Retired  
10 May 2017

Stephen Thieke Non-executive 
Director

Retired  
10 May 2017

Appointment and retirement of Directors 
The appointment and retirement of Directors 
is governed by the Company's Articles of 
Association (the Articles), the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), the Companies 
Act 2006 and related legislation.

The Articles may only be amended by a 
special resolution of the shareholders. The 
Board has the power to appoint additional 
Directors or to fill a casual vacancy among the 
Directors. Any such Director holds office only 
until the next AGM and may offer himself/
herself for re-election. The Code recommends 
that all directors of FTSE 350 companies 
should be subject to annual re-election. All 
Directors will stand for election or re-election 
at the 2018 AGM.

Directors' indemnities 
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as 
defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 
2006) were in force during the course of the 
financial year ended 31 December 2017 for the 
benefit of the then Directors and, at the date 
of this report, are in force for the benefit of  
the Directors in relation to certain losses and 
liabilities which they may incur (or have 
incurred) in connection with their duties, 
powers or office. In addition, the Company 
maintains Directors' & Officers' Liability 
Insurance which gives appropriate cover for 
legal action brought against its Directors. 

Qualifying pension scheme indemnity 
provisions (as defined by section 235 of the 
Companies Act 2006) were in force during  
the course of the financial year ended 
31 December 2017 for the benefit of the then 
Directors, and at the date of this report are in 
force for the benefit of directors of Barclays 
Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee  
of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.  
The directors of the Trustee are indemnified 
against liability incurred in connection with 
the company's activities as Trustee of the 
Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 85

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Other statutory information

Similarly, qualifying pension scheme 
indemnities were in force during 2017 for 
the benefit of directors of Barclays Executive 
Schemes Trustees Limited as Trustee of 
Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia 
Staff Pension Fund (1965), Barclays Capital 
International Pension Scheme (No.1), and 
Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement 
Benefits Scheme. The directors of the Trustee 
are indemnified against liability incurred in 
connection with the Company's activities as 
Trustee of the schemes above. 

Political donations 
The Group did not give any money for political 
purposes in the UK, the rest of the EU or 
outside of the EU, nor did it make any political 
donations to political parties or other political 
organisations, or to any independent election 
candidates, or incur any political expenditure 
during the year.

In accordance with the US Federal 
Election Campaign Act, Barclays provides 
administrative support to a federal Political 
Action Committee (PAC) in the US funded by 
the voluntary political contributions of eligible 
employees. The PAC is not controlled by 
Barclays and all decisions regarding the 
amounts and recipients of contributions are 
directed by a steering committee comprising 
employees eligible to contribute to the PAC. 
Contributions to political organisations 
reported by the PAC during the calendar year 
2017 totalled $67,250 (2016: $12,500). 

Environment 
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental 
issues where we believe we have the greatest 
potential to make a difference. We focus on 
managing our own carbon footprint and 
reducing our absolute carbon emissions, 
developing products and services to help 
enable the transition to a low-carbon 
economy, and managing the risks of climate 
change to our operations, clients, customers 
and society at large.

We invest in improving the energy efficiency 
of our operations and offset the emissions 
remaining through the purchase of carbon 
credits, sourced from verified projects. We 
also have a long-standing commitment to 
managing the environmental and social risks 
associated with our lending practices, which 
is embedded into our Credit risk processes. 
A governance structure is in place to facilitate 
clear dialogue across the business and with 
suppliers around issues of potential 
environmental and social risk.

We have disclosed global greenhouse gas 
emissions  that we are responsible for as set 
out by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors' Report) Regulations 
2013. We provide fuller disclosure on (i) 
financing solutions for the lower carbon 
economy, (ii) environmental risk management 
and (iii) management of our carbon and 
environmental footprint in the Barclays 
Environmental Social Governance (ESG) 
Report available on our website at 
home.barclays.com/citizenship. We have 
also provided initial disclosures aligned with 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

Disclosures (TCFD) in the Strategic Report 
and ESG Report. 

Current 
reporting

yeara
2017

Previous 
reporting 

year
2016 

Previous 
reporting 

year
2015

Global Green House Gas (GHG) Emissionsb

Total CO2e 
emissions 
(tonnes) 347,165 402,531 479,934
Scope 1 CO2e 
emissions 
(tonnes)c 25,627 26,721 29,144
Scope 2 CO2e 
emissions 
(tonnes)d 250,897 308,473 342,012
Scope 3 CO2e 
emissions 
(tonnes)e 70,641 67,336 93,989
Intensity Ratio 
Total Full Time 
Equivalent 
(Full Time 
Equivalent) 79,900  76,500 85,800
Total CO2e 
emissions 
(tonnes) 
per FTEf 4.34 5.26 5.59
Scope 2 CO2e 
market-based 
emissions 
(tonnes)d 298,469 337,483

Notes
a The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 

1 October to 30 September. The carbon reporting year 
is not fully aligned to the financial reporting year 
covered by the Directors' report. 

b The methodology used to calculate our GHG is the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG): A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 
defined by the World Resources Institute/World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WRI/WBCSD). We have adopted the operational 
control approach on reporting boundaries to define 
our reporting boundary. Where properties are covered 
by Barclays' consolidated financial statements but 
are leased to tenants, these emissions are not included 
in the Group GHG calculations. Where Barclays is 
responsible for the utility costs, these emissions 
are included. 

 On 1 June 2017, we completed the sale of a 33.7% 
stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL) resulting 
in a non-controlling position. In 2017, we have restated 
our GHG emissions through to the 2015 baseline to 
account for this and BAGL emissions are not reported 
from 2015 onwards in order to ensure accurate 
tracking against our 30% carbon reduction 
commitment. In addition, we have restated our Scope 
3 emissions to remove erroneous air data which was 
identified as part of the 2017 reporting process.

c Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and 
company owned vehicles (from UK only, which is 
the most material contributors). Fugitive emissions 
reported in Scope 1 cover emissions from UK, 
Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe. 

d Scope 2 location and market emissions cover 
electricity and steam purchased for own use. Market 
based emissions have been reported for 2017 and 
2016 only. 

e Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel 
(global flights and ground transport from the UK, 
USA and India. USA and India ground transport covers 
onwards car hire only which is provided directly by the 
supplier. Ground transportation data (excluding 
Scope 1 company cars) covers only countries where 
robust data is available directly from the supplier.

f Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using 
location based emission factors only.

Research and development 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group 
develops new products and services in each of 
its business divisions.

Share capital 
Share capital structure
The Company has ordinary shares in issue. 
The Company's Articles also allow for the 
issuance of Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Yen 
preference shares (preference shares). No 
preference shares have been issued as at 
19 February 2018 (the latest practicable date 
for inclusion in this report). Ordinary shares 
therefore represent 100% of the total issued 
share capital as at 31 December 2017 and as 
at 19 February 2018 (the latest practicable 
date for inclusion in this report). Details of the 
movement in ordinary share capital during the 
year can be found in Note 31 on page 297.

Voting
Every member who is present in person or 
represented at any general meeting of the 
Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one 
vote on a show of hands. Every proxy present 
has one vote. The proxy will have one vote for 
and one vote against a resolution if he/she 
has been instructed to vote for or against the 
resolution by different members or in one 
direction by a member while another member 
has permitted the proxy discretion as to how 
to vote. 

On a poll, every member who is present or 
represented and who is entitled to vote has 
one vote for every share held. In the case 
of joint holders, only the vote of the senior 
holder (as determined by order in the share 
register) or his/her proxy may be counted. If 
any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to 
a member's shareholding, that member is not 
entitled to vote that share or exercise any 
other right in relation to a meeting of the 
Company unless the Board otherwise 
determines. 

If any member, or any other person appearing 
to be interested in any of the Company's 
ordinary shares, is served with a notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
does not supply the Company with the 
information required in the notice, then the 
Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct 
that that member shall not be entitled to 
attend or vote at any meeting of the Company. 
The Board may further direct that if the shares 
of the defaulting member represent 0.25% or 
more of the issued shares of the relevant 
class, that dividends or other monies payable 
on those shares shall be retained by the 
Company until the direction ceases to have 
effect and that no transfer of those shares 
shall be registered (other than certain 
specified ‘excepted transfers'). A direction 
ceases to have effect seven days after the 
Company has received the information 
requested, or when the Company is notified 
that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant 
shares to a third party has occurred, or as the 
Board otherwise determines.

86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Transfers 
Ordinary shares may be held in either 
certificated or uncertificated form. Certificated 
ordinary shares shall be transferred in writing 
in any usual or other form approved by the 
Company Secretary and executed by or on 
behalf of the transferor. Transfers of 
uncertificated ordinary shares shall be made 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and CREST Regulations.

The Board is not bound to register a transfer 
of partly-paid ordinary shares or fully-paid 
shares in exceptional circumstances approved 
by the FCA. The Board may also decline to 
register an instrument of transfer of 
certificated ordinary shares unless it is (i) duly 
stamped, deposited at the prescribed place 
and accompanied by the share certificate(s) 
and such other evidence as reasonably 
required by the Board to evidence right to 
transfer, (ii) it is in respect of one class of 
shares only, and (iii) it is in favour of a single 
transferee or not more than four joint 
transferees (except in the case of executors 
or trustees of a member). 

In accordance with the provisions of Section 
84 of the Small Business, Enterprise and 
Employment Act 2015, preference shares may 
only be issued in registered form. Preference 
shares shall be transferred in writing in any 
usual or other form approved by the Company 
Secretary and executed by or on behalf of the 
transferor. The Company's registrar shall 
register such transfers of preference shares by 
making the appropriate entries in the register 
of preference shares. Each preference share 
shall confer, in the event of a winding up or 
any return of capital by reduction of capital 
(other than, unless otherwise provided by 
their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase 
by the Company of any of its issued shares, 
or a reduction of share capital), the right to 
receive out of the surplus assets of the 
Company available for distribution among the 
members and in priority to the holders of the 
ordinary shares and any other shares in the 
Company ranking junior to the relevant series 
of preference shares and pari passu with any 
other class of preference shares (other than 
any class of shares then in issue ranking in 
priority to the relevant series of preference 
shares), repayment of the amount paid up or 
treated as paid up in respect of the nominal 
value of the preference share together with 
any premium which was paid or treated as 
paid when the preference share was issued in 
addition to an amount equal to accrued and 
unpaid dividends.

Variation of rights 
The rights attached to any class of shares may 
be varied either with the consent in writing of 
the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of 
the issued shares of that class, or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a 
separate meeting of the holders of the shares 
of that class. The rights of shares shall not 
(unless expressly provided by the rights 
attached to such shares) be deemed varied by 
the creation of further shares ranking equally 
with them or subsequent to them.

Limitations on foreign shareholders 
There are no restrictions imposed by the 
Articles of Association or (subject to the effect 
of any economic sanctions that may be in 
force from time to time) by current UK laws 
which relate only to non-residents of the UK 
and which limit the rights of such non-
residents to hold or (when entitled to do so) 
vote the ordinary shares.

Exercisability of rights under an employee 
share scheme 
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) operate in 
connection with certain of the Group's 
Employee Share Plans (Plans). The trustees of 
the EBTs may exercise all rights attached to 
the shares in accordance with their fiduciary 
duties other than as specifically restricted 
in the relevant Plan governing documents. 
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the 
Company that their normal policy is to abstain 
from voting in respect of the Barclays shares 
held in trust. The trustees of the Global 
Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase 
EBTs may vote in respect of Barclays shares 
held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by 
participants in those Plans in respect of their 
partnership shares and (when vested) 
matching and dividend shares. The trustees 
will not otherwise vote in respect of shares 
held in the Sharepurchase EBTs. 

Special rights
There are no persons holding securities that 
carry special rights with regard to the control 
of the Company. 

Major shareholders
Major shareholders do not have different 
voting rights from those of other 
shareholders. Information provided to the 
Company by substantial shareholders 
pursuant to the FCA's Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules are published via a 
Regulatory Information Service and is available 
on the Company's website. As at 31 December 
2017, the Company had been notified under 
Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules of the following holdings 
of voting rights in its shares.

Person interested
 Number of 

Barclays shares

% of total 
voting 
rights 

attaching 
to issued 

share 
capitala

The Capital Group 
Companies Incb 1,172,090,125 6.98
Qatar Holding LLCc 1,017,455,690 5.99
BlackRock, Incd 1,010,054,871 5.92

Notes
a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was 

calculated at the time of the relevant disclosures made 
in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules.

b The Capital Group Companies Inc (CG) holds its shares 
via CG Management companies and funds. Part of the 
CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. 
On 14 February 2018, CG disclosed by way of a 
Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial ownership 
of 1,167,912,211ordinary shares of the Company as of 
29 December 2017, representing 6.8% of that class of 
shares. 

c Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar 
Investment Authority. On 17 January 2018, Qatar 
Holding LLC disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed 
with the SEC, beneficial ownership of 941,620,690 
ordinary shares of the Company as of 31 December 
2017, representing 5.52% of that class of shares.

d Total shown includes 2,009,814 contracts for 
difference to which voting rights are attached. Part of 
the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. 
On 30 January 2018, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way 
of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial 
ownership of 1,145,415,782 ordinary shares of the 
Company as of 31 December 2017, representing 6.7% 
of that class of shares.

Between 31 December 2017 and 
19 February 2018 (the latest practicable 
date for inclusion in this report), the Company 
was notified that BlackRock, Inc. now holds 
990,743,261 Barclays shares, representing 
5.80% of the total voting rights attached to 
issued share capital. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 87

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Directors' report

Other statutory information

Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the 
Company's shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by 
the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's 
Articles. The Directors are authorised to issue 
and allot shares and to buy back shares 
subject to annual shareholder approval at 
the AGM. Such authorities were granted by 
shareholders at the 2017 AGM. It will be 
proposed at the 2018 AGM that the Directors 
be granted new authorities to allot and 
buy back shares.

Repurchase of shares
The Company did not repurchase any of its 
ordinary shares during 2017 (2016: none). As 
at 19 February 2018 (the latest practicable 
date for inclusion in this report) the Company 
had an unexpired authority to repurchase 
ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,696m 
ordinary shares. 

Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2017, the distributable 
reserves of Barclays PLC (the Parent company) 
were £6,728m and the distributable reserves 
of Barclays Bank PLC were £24,021m. 

As at the date of this report, Barclays PLC, 
Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(our future ring-fenced bank) intend to carry 
out a process in the second half of 2018 to 
increase their respective distributable reserves. 
Each process will require the relevant 
company to obtain shareholder and court 
approval, and for Barclays PLC we will be 
seeking shareholder approval at our 2018 
AGM. In each case, the processes will involve 
the conversion of the share premium account 
into a distributable reserve, which is a 
reclassification within the equity of each 
company and will have no regulatory capital 
impact. Further information will be included 
in the Barclays PLC AGM Notice of Meeting 
(please see page 84 for further details about 
our AGM and how you can vote). 

Change of control
There are no significant agreements to which 
the Company is a party that are affected by a 
change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. There are no agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for 
loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.

Going concern 
The Group's business activities, financial 
position, capital, factors likely to affect its 
future development and performance and 
its objectives and policies in managing the 
financial risks to which it is exposed are 
discussed in the Strategic report and Risk 
review and Risk management sections.

The Directors considered it appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements of the Group 
and Company on a going concern basis.

In preparing each of the Group and Parent 
company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to: 
■■ assess the Group and Parent company's 

ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern; and 

■■ use the going concern basis of accounting 
unless they either intend to liquidate the 
Group or the Parent company or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative 
but to do so. 

Disclosure of information to the Auditor 
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company's auditors are unaware 
and that each of the Directors has taken all 
the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a 
Director to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company's auditors are aware of 
that information. This confirmation is given 
pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 
2006 and should be interpreted in accordance 
with and subject to those provisions.

Directors' responsibilities 
The following statement, which should be 
read in conjunction with the Auditor's report 
set out on page 228 to 233, is made with a 
view to distinguishing for shareholders the 
respective responsibilities of the Directors and 
of the Auditors in relation to the accounts. 

The Directors are required by the Companies 
Act 2006 to prepare Group and Company 
financial statements for each financial year 
and, with regards to Group accounts, in 
accordance with Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. The Directors have prepared 
Group and Company accounts in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. 

The Directors consider that, in preparing the 
financial statements, the Group and Company 
has used appropriate accounting policies, 
supported by reasonable judgements and 
estimates, and that all accounting standards 
which they consider to be applicable have 
been followed.

Having taken all the matters considered by 
the Board and brought to the attention of the 
Board during the year into account, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable, and 
provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group and 
Company's position and performance, 
business model and strategy.

Directors are responsible for such internal 
control as they determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements 
that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

Directors' responsibility statement 
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring 
that the Company and the Group keep 
accounting records which disclose with 
reasonable accuracy the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and which 
enable them to ensure that the accounts 
comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors' report, 
Directors' remuneration report and Corporate 
governance statement in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 

The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements as they 
appear on the Company's website. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

The Directors have a general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and Company and to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities.

The Directors, whose names and functions are 
set out on pages 47 and 48, confirm to the 
best of their knowledge that:

(a)  the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and

(b)  the management report, on page 4 to 37, 
which is incorporated in the Directors' 
report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.

By order of the Board 

Stephen Shapiro
Company Secretary 
21 February 2018 

Registered in England. 
Company No. 48839

88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
As highlighted in ‘Our People and Culture' 
on pages 36 and 37, we have continued to 
make progress towards increasing the 
diversity of our workforce underpinned by 
an inclusive culture and engaged 
employees. Below provides an overview of 
some of the programmes, initiatives and 
ways in which we are supporting our 
colleagues, which in turn enables us to 
support our customers, clients and the 
community.

Early careers and apprenticeships
Our Early Careers offering includes graduate, 
internship and apprenticeship programmes. 
In 2017 we hired over 780 interns and 675 
graduates, and since 2012 we have created 
over 3,400 apprenticeships. We provide 
pathways for progression from apprentice to 
graduate supported by recognised 
qualifications and, in doing so, help to create 
an internal talent pipeline. During 2017, we 
launched a new graduate programme across 
a number of our business areas to attract the 
workforce of the future, and within 
Technology and Barclays UK we increased the 
number of opportunities for both interns and 
graduates.

Internal mobility
By supporting internal mobility across Barclays 
and making it simple and easy for colleagues 
to move internally, we hope to successfully 
retain and develop our internal talent. We have 
developed multiple tools and resources for 
colleagues to find internal career opportunities 
and for managers to find and assess suitable 
internal candidates. In 2017 our rate of 
internal hiring was 40%, a reduction on 2016, 
which can be attributed to factors including 
a strategic move to hire externally for specific 
skill sets, particularly within Technology, and 
a focus on converting temporary staff into 
permanent roles.

Leadership and learning
In 2017, a consistent Barclays Leadership 
Capability framework launched across the 
organisation. Our leadership and learning 
solutions are underpinned by this framework 
and our values. The Barclays Academies and 
our Global Curriculum provide colleagues 
with face-to-face, virtual and self-managed 
development resources. All new joiners 
undertake the ‘Being Barclays' induction, 
providing an in-depth understanding of the 
values and expected behaviours through the 
Global Code of Conduct (The Barclays Way). 

Industrial relations and managing change
Barclays has a long-standing partnership 
approach to industrial relations and we value 
the relationships we have with over 14 trade 
unions, works councils and staff associations 
globally. Within the UK we have a formal 
partnership with Unite which has been in 
place for over 17 years. Following joint review, 
the partnership agreement was extended in 
2017 for a further five years. As part of the 
review, Unite recognition was extended to 
cover an additional 1,500 employees. 
Throughout 2017, we have continued to have 
regular and constructive dialogue with 
employee representatives and employees on a 
wide range of topics. Earlier this year, as part 
of our implementation of structural reform, 
we consulted with Unite and employee forums 
on the successful transfer of c. 53,000 
employees to new legal employing entities. We 
seek to avoid compulsory redundancies where 
possible and try to find ways in which we can 
achieve this during the consultation period. 
We continue to place significant emphasis on 
voluntary redundancy programmes as well as 
internal redeployment through our ‘Internals 
First' programme. We also aim to keep in 
touch with former colleagues through the 
Barclays Global Alumni Programme.

Performance management
Barclays' approach to performance 
management is key to the delivery of our 
strategy and to drive a values-based culture. 
Colleagues align their objectives (‘what' they 
will deliver) to business and team goals to 
support our strategy and good customer 
outcomes. Behavioural expectations (‘how' 
they will achieve their objectives) are set in the 
context of our values. Our global recognition 
programme provides colleagues the 
opportunity to recognise the achievements of 
those who have demonstrated our values. We 
continue to see a year-on-year increase in the 
number of colleagues receiving a values 
‘Thank You' message, with over 210,000 
messages sent in 2017.

Colleagues are also encouraged to be 
involved with the Company's performance by 
participating in our all-employee share plans, 
which have been running successfully for 
over 10 years. Further details of our approach 
to remuneration are included in the 
Remuneration report on pages 93 to 116.

Employee communications
Barclays regularly updates employees on the 
financial and economic factors affecting the 
Company's performance and the delivery of 
the strategy through Group CEO and senior 
leader communications, line manager 
briefing packs, interviews and talking points 
distributed to employees every quarter in 
accordance with our financial reporting 
calendar. We hold a variety of events for 
employees to hear directly from the Group 
Executive Committee and employees are kept 
regularly informed about what is happening 
in their area and across Barclays through 
engagement initiatives and communications. 
Campaigns and colleague stories throughout 
the year highlight our Citizenship work and 
how we are supporting our customers, clients 
and colleagues.

Diversity and Inclusion 
We aim to ensure that employees of all 
backgrounds are treated equally and have the 
opportunity to be successful. Our global 
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy sets 
objectives, initiatives and plans across 
five core pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability, 
Multicultural and Multigenerational, in 
support of that ambition. Our approach to 
building an inclusive work environment is 
focused on upskilling our leadership and we 
provide a range of development opportunities 
including our Unconscious Bias Training 
which has been delivered to over 10,000 
leaders across Barclays, and Dynamic Working 
line manager clinics which have been 
attended by over 4,000 leaders. 

LGBT
An inclusive culture that enables colleagues 
to bring their whole selves to work is built on 
having leadership participation and visible role 
models. Now in its third year, our Spectrum 
Allies campaign has identified over 8,000 
leaders globally who have pledged to 
challenge homophobia, biphobia and 
transphobia in the workplace and provide 
support to LGBT colleagues. Through the 
‘Your View' survey we provide colleagues with 
the opportunity to identify as being LGBT, with 
7% of colleagues identifying as LGBT in 2017. 
This year was the fourth consecutive year that 
Barclays supported Pride in London as the 
headline sponsor. The #lovehappenshere 
theme reached over 3 million people across 
multiple communications channels and 
across the UK over 1,000 Barclays colleagues 
participated in regional Pride events across 
the UK. 

Independent recognition reflects the progress 
we are making and the impact of our strategy. 
For the fifth consecutive year, Stonewall has 
recognised Barclays as one of only 12 Top 
Global Employers. The Human Rights 
Campaign has awarded Barclays with 100% 
on their corporate equity index. 

Governance: People

People

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 89

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: People

People

Disability
Under the UK Government's Department 
of Work and Pensions Disability Confident 
scheme, Barclays has been recognised as a 
Disability Confident Leader for our efforts to 
support those who have a disability. This year, 
alongside PwC, we have further scaled the 
‘This is Me in the City' initiative along with the 
Lord Mayor of the City of London. The ‘This Is 
Me' mental health and well-being campaign 
now includes over 280 organisations across 
London who have pledged to focus on 
eliminating the stigma associated with mental 
health in their workplace (over 1 million 
employees collectively). In 2018, through 
these partnerships, we plan to expand ‘This 
is Me' further in the UK. Continuing our 
commitment to increase employment of those 
with a disability or mental health condition, 
this year we expanded our Able to Enable 
internship in the UK. This 13-week paid 
programme is aimed at recruiting talented 
individuals of all ages with a background of 
mental health conditions, providing them with 
opportunities to gain work experience, learn 
new skills and grow their experience and 
confidence. 

Multigenerational
Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to 
colleagues at every life stage. It addresses the 
diverse needs of a workforce comprised of five 
generations, by encouraging the integration 
of personal and professional responsibilities 
through smarter work patterns. The campaign 
is having a positive impact on colleague 
engagement with the 59% of colleagues 
actively working dynamically in 2017 reporting 
5% points higher than the Group sustainable 
engagement result. Dynamic Working is also 
enabling Barclays to have a positive impact 
on the retention of diverse talent, examples 
include a 13% improvement in maternity 
returners retained after 12 months, and 95% 
of those taking Shared Parental Leave 
are fathers. 

Addressing the changing needs of a 
multigenerational workforce will be an 
ongoing focus in 2018 but we are pleased that 
Working Families UK has recognised Barclays 
as one of the top 10 Employers for Working 
Families in 2017.

Multigenerational

0.03
0.03

14
14

22
23

62
62

0.06
0.07

% 69+ (Veterans/Traditionalists)

% 51 to 69 (Baby Boomers)

% 39 to 51 (Generation X)

% 20 to 39 (Generation Y)

% 20 and below (Millennial)

2017 (H2)
2016 (H2)

For the purpose of comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays
Africa Group Limited headcount.

Multicultural
During 2017, the Embracing Us campaign was 
launched in celebration of World Cultural Day, 
aiming to challenge global stereotypes and 
mindsets in relation to nationality, faith, 
ethnicity, race and language. During the 
campaign our multicultural network, Embrace, 
engaged over 15,000 colleagues through 
multiple communications channels, leadership 
forums and Being Colour Brave development 
workshops. Barclays' Apprenticeship 
Programme reflects our commitment to 
recruit a diverse workforce. Since the 
programme launched, we have focused on 
recruiting those who are NEET (Not in 
Education, Employment or Training). 19% of 
our apprentices identify as Black, Asian and 
Minority Ethnic, 8% points higher than the 
national apprenticeship average. In addition, 
46% of our apprentices are female and 8% 
identify as a person with a disability. Through 
this scheme we are making a positive impact 
on youth unemployment and social mobility. 

The multicultural profile of the organisation 
was acknowledged externally by the City of 
London and the Social Mobility Commission 
through the Social Mobility Employer Index as 
a Top 50 Employer in 2017.

Multicultural

32
29

49
47

50
51

% UK

% US

% Global

Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations 
that make up our global and regional populations.  
Underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure 
inclusion of all groups in the workplace. For the purposes of 
comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays Africa Group Limited 
headcount. UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and 
Non-Disclosed and US includes Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Mixed, 
Black, Other and Non-Disclosed.

Permanent employees by region
 As at 31 December 2017 2016 2015
United Kingdom 48,700 46,400 49,000
Continental Europe and Middle East 3,600 4,700 7,400
Americas 10,400 9,700 10,600
Asia Pacific 17,200 15,700 18,800
Africa – 42,800 43,600
Total 79,900 119,300 129,400

Gender Pay Gap disclosure 
The gender pay gap measures the difference 
between the average male pay and the 
average female pay as a proportion of the 
average male pay. For example, average male 
pay of £100 per hour and average female pay 
of £85 per hour would indicate a gender pay 
gap of 15%. The calculation does not take 
into consideration the role that an employee 
performs or the seniority of the employee. 
As a result, gender pay gaps are often driven 
by higher proportions of women than men 
in more junior, lower paid roles and fewer 
women than men in senior, more highly 
paid roles. 

Equal Pay legislation in the UK specifically 
relates to an employee's role, making it 
unlawful for an employer to pay individuals 
differently for performing the same or similar 
work. This right for women and men to 
receive the same pay for the same, or similar 
work, or work of equal value, has been a 
requirement under UK law since 1970. Paying 
our colleagues fairly and equitably relative to 
their role, skill, experience and performance is 
central to our global reward structures and 
benefits policies, which are reviewed regularly 
to ensure that there is no unfair bias in how 
employees are paid. At Barclays we are 
confident that men and women across our 
organisation are paid equally for doing the 
same job.

The difference between the gender pay gap 
and equal pay can be illustrated by the fact 
that men and women who are paid equally 
for the same or similar roles, can still generate 
a gender pay gap driven by the relative 
proportions of men and women across the 
organisation. This is illustrated in graphic B.

Our gender pay gap results shown in graphic 
C reflect the distribution of men and women 
between corporate grades within Barclays. 
As illustrated in graphic A, the percentage of 
women in our more senior corporate grades 
is lower than the percentage of women at 
Barclays overall. This correlates with the 
ordinary pay quartile data in graphic C, in 
which the entire population is arranged in 
order of ordinary pay (fixed pay), from lowest 
to highest, and then divided into four equal 
sub-populations. The numbers of male and 
female employees in each sub-population is 
then expressed as a proportion. The ordinary 
pay quartiles reflect the high proportions of 
women in more junior, lower paid roles 
(particularly evident in Barclays UK within 
the retail branch network) and the high 
proportions of men in senior, highly paid roles 
(particularly evident in Barclays International). 

90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Graphic A
Female representation

47
48

58
57

36
36

33
33

26
25

15
14

% female staff – all grades

% female analysts (B1–B4)

% female Assistant Vice Presidents

% female Vice Presidents

% female Directors

% female Managing Directors

2017 (H2)
2016 (H2)

For the purposes of comparability 2016 headcount figures exclude
Barclays Africa Group Limited.

The mean pay gap shown in graphic C is the 
difference between the average hourly pay of 
men and women. The median pay gap is the 
difference between the midpoints in the ranges 
of hourly pay of men and women. It arranges 
the hourly pay rates from highest to lowest 
and identifies the hourly pay in the middle of 
the range. The mean bonus gap is based on 
actual bonuses paid and does not make any 
adjustments to the amounts paid to employees 
who work a reduced number of hours. 

The demographics of our population and the 
resulting gender pay gaps emphasise the 
importance of maintaining our firm 
commitment to increasing female 
representation across Barclays, particularly 
among the senior leadership population. We 
welcome the introduction of gender pay gap 
reporting to bring further focus to our 
commitment to improving gender diversity – a 
commitment that is, and will remain, at the 
core of our talent management and leadership 
succession processes. 

How we are addressing the gender pay gap
We recognise that tackling the gender pay gap 
will take time and therefore it is key that we 
remain focused on improving gender diversity 
through a workplace environment and culture 
that supports and empowers women. At 
Barclays, our focus goes beyond simply 
addressing the gender pay gap and extends 
to our internal and external gender equality 
commitments. Across both our organisation, 
and in the financial services industry, we are 
dedicated to enabling women to fulfil their 
career aspirations. To achieve this goal and 
thereby narrow our gender pay gap, we will 
continue to focus on ensuring there is no bias 
in the hiring, promotion, development and 
retention of women at Barclays. 

Gender
pay gap
48.8%

Equal pay
All roles paid

equally

Greater proportion of men in highly paid roles, 
more women than men in lower paid roles:

Role A
£100k

Role B
£30k

Average £86k £44k

Role A
£100k

Role B
£30k

Average £65k £44k

Gender
pay gap

32%

Equal pay
All roles paid

equally

Equal proportion of men and women in highly paid roles, 
more women than men in lower paid roles:

Graphic B Illustrative example of the difference between the gender pay gap and equal pay

Barclays Gender Pay Gap results 
Barclays UK Barclays International Service Company

Gender Pay Gap
(fixed pay)

Median Mean Median Mean Median Mean

14.2% 26.0% 43.5% 48.0% 29.9% 25.8%

Gender Bonus 
Pay Gap

Median Mean Median Mean Median Mean

46.9% 60.1% 73.3% 78.7% 24.0% 48.8%

Proportion  
of colleagues 
receiving a 
bonus payment 95.2% 93.1% 93.4% 93.7% 92.5% 91.2%

Gender 
proportions  
in ordinary  
pay quartiles
(fixed pay)

55%Q4

34%Q3

33%Q2

27%

45%

66%

67%

73%Q1

81%Q4

69%Q3

49%Q2

37%

19%

31%

51%

63%Q1

71%Q4

64%Q3

50%Q2

42%

29%

36%

50%

58%Q1

Under the regulations we are required to report our gender pay data for each separate 
UK-based legal entity that has at least 250 employees therefore the Barclays PLC data is broken 
down by Barclays Bank UK Group PLC (Barclays UK), Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays International) 
and Barclays Services Limited (Group Service Company).

Graphic C

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 91

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: People

People

Gender diversity commitments
As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury 
Women in Finance Charter and supporter of 
the Hampton-Alexander Review, to support our 
commitment to gender equality, we proactively 
set gender targets and we have made good 
progress towards these targets. Our goal to 
improve the percentage of female Managing 
Directors and Directors to 26% by the end of 
2018 (23% at the end of 2017) has 
subsequently expanded with commitments of 
33% female representation across our Board of 
Directors by 2020 (21% at the end of 2017) and 
33% female representation among the Group 
Executive Committee and their direct reports 
(25% at the end of 2017). Alongside these 
targets, Barclays has been focused on and will 
continue to develop, a range of extensive 
initiatives, programmes and policies to improve 
gender diversity. Below are some highlights of 
the ways in which we are increasing female 
representation at Barclays and enabling women 
to fulfil their career aspirations.

Creating new career opportunities
We have expanded our graduate and 
apprenticeship programmes, reflecting 
our commitment to improve employment 
opportunities, tackle societal issues and 
attract diverse talent. We have transformed 
the way we recruit for our graduate 
programmes to drive diversity and inclusion 
as students are able to demonstrate ability 
and potential throughout the process, so 
that recruitment outcomes are based on 
performance and not on the basis of subjects 
studied, universities attended and previous 
work experience. In doing so we hope to 
increase the number of female graduate hires 
to 50% (40% at the end of 2017, up from 31% 
in 2014). For those looking to re-enter the 
workforce after taking time out of their 
careers, our Encore! Returnship Programme 
provides opportunities for experienced 
professionals to join a paid programme with a 
view to securing a permanent role at Barclays 
at the end of the programme. More broadly, 
we have policies and practices in place to 
ensure that all recruitment decisions are fair 
and candidate shortlists are diverse.

Talent management and leadership 
development
The creation of ex-officio positions on the 
Group Executive Committee and across the 
business unit and functional Executive 
Committees in 2016 by the Group Chief 
Executive, has provided development 
opportunities for a number of our high 
potential female leaders and has broadened 
the scope of the perspectives and decision 
making across our leadership teams. Our 
Unconscious Bias training, now attended by 
over 10,000 leaders, supports the continued 
elimination of bias from our people processes, 
and successful events that we run each year 
such as the Global Women in Leadership 
conference and the Enterprise Leaders 
Summit focus on building capability and 
upskilling leaders.

Cultural change
Providing a workplace that encourages 
colleagues to achieve their personal and 
professional goals is key to supporting and 
retaining our employees. We aim to do this 
through our progressive maternity, paternity, 
adoption and shared parental leave policies 
which go beyond the statutory requirements, 
as well as through our flexible working 
campaign Dynamic Working. Dynamic Working 
supports colleagues in all stages of their lives in 
achieving an optimal work and life balance, 
helping them with parenthood, studies, caring 
and hobbies. Across Barclays, our Women's 
Initiative Network (Win) provides colleagues 
with career development and networking 
opportunities including mentoring, career fairs 
and senior leader speaker events.

Strategic partnerships
Barclays recognises that gender equality 
extends to the communities in which we work, 
support and live and greater gender equality is 
integral to our long-term investments to drive 
societal change. We demonstrate this through 
strategic partnerships, external engagement 
and leadership commitment, including but not 
limited to, our multi-year commitment to the 
United Nations HeForShe campaign and our 
partnership with the Women's Business Council. 

So what next?
Our existing pipeline of female talent is being 
further strengthened through the launch of a 
global gender task force, comprising of 
leaders from across the organisation who 
believe passionately in gender diversity and 
who will focus on new and improved 

initiatives to further accelerate our progress 
against our gender diversity commitments. 
We acknowledge that there is still a lot of 
work to do, but our determination and 
commitment to building a diverse and 
inclusive workforce through attracting, 
retaining and developing world class 
professionals is paramount, and we are 
working hard to foster an environment in 
which all employees have the opportunity to 
succeed, regardless of race, religion or belief, 
age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, 
gender identity or nationality.

Further details on the gender pay 
gap and Barclays commitments to 

gender diversity and equality can be found 
at home.barclays/diversity

Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is 
required to report on the gender breakdown of 
our employees and ‘senior managers'. Of our 
global workforce of 79,900 (45,100 male, 34,800 
female), 555 were senior managers (401 male, 
154 female), which include Officers of the Group, 
certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, 
heads of major business units, certain senior 
Managing Directors, and directors on the boards 
of undertakings of the Group, but exclude 
individuals who sit as Directors on the Board of 
the Company. The definition of senior managers 
within this disclosure has a narrower scope than 
the Managing Director and Director female 
representation data provided above.

Internally we are committed to:
Leadership accountability 
including gender diversity 
targets and the introduction 
of a gender task force

Focusing on a more inclusive 
work environment to ensure 
all colleagues have the 
flexibility to achieve personal 
and professional goals

Ensuring we are developing 
leaders who are equipped to 
meet the demands of a more 
diverse workforce

2020 Gender diversity commitments
■■ Board of Directors 33%
■■ Leadership 33% (Group ExCo and their direct reports)

Cultural change
■■ Dynamic Working
■■ Progressive parental policies
■■ Barclays' Win Gender Network

Talent management
■■ Leadership succession planning
■■ Ex-officio leadership roles
■■ Internal mobility

Leadership development
■■ Unconscious bias training
■■ Global Women in Leadership Conference
■■ Enterprise Leaders summits

Externally we are committed to:
Engaging men globally in 
gender equality in partnership 
with the United Nations

Providing enhanced 
employment opportunities and 
attracting diverse candidates

Community impact

UN HeForShe
■■ Global Impact Champion

Barclays role models
■■ External engagement of Barclays' senior women  

across Financial Services, IT and STEM

Creating new career opportunities
■■ Encore! Returnship Programme
■■ Expanded Apprenticeship Programme
■■ 50% female graduate hires

Strategic partnerships
■■ Women's Business Council
■■ 30% Club

92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Dear Fellow Shareholders
As Chairman of the Board Remuneration 
Committee, I am pleased to introduce the 
Remuneration report for 2017. 

As in previous years, we are committed to pay 
being aligned to performance, while ensuring 
that we are able to attract and retain the 
employees critical to delivering our strategy.

The Committee believes that our pay outcomes 
for 2017 reflect overall Group performance, 
recognising improvements in profit before tax 
and significant achievements in restructuring 
the Group, while acknowledging the need for 
further improvement in returns.

Further details on our performance and the 
decisions we have made on remuneration are 
outlined below.

Performance and pay
2017 has been a year of significant strategic 
progress for the Group, achieving a number of 
milestones to deliver a simpler organisation. 
These include the sell down of our 
shareholding in Barclays Africa Group Limited 
(BAGL), the closure of Non-Core and the 
launch of the Group Service Company. A great 
deal has been accomplished in relation to the 
UK ring-fencing requirements, establishing the 
necessary entity structure, processes and 
governance.

As well as positioning the simplified Group for 
growth in 2018, Barclays has achieved a CRD 
IV fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 
ratio of 13.3%, within the end state target 
range. Group profit before tax is up 10%  
from 2016 to £3,541m driven by an £882m 
reduction in operating expenses.

Against this background, the Committee 
approved a Group incentive pool of £1,506m, 
down 2% from 2016. This decision recognises 
the strong strategic execution across the 
Group, while being clear that Group returns 
are not yet where our shareholders, and the  
Board, want them to be. The Committee also 
recognises the need to ensure that areas of 
strong performance within the businesses are 
rewarded competitively, with key talent 
retained to deliver against our growth strategy 
going into 2018 and beyond. This pool also 
reflects appropriate adjustments for risk and 
conduct matters, which continue to be taken 
very seriously by the Committee.

Key remuneration decisions for 
executive Directors
The Committee considered the executive 
Directors' performance against the financial 
and strategic/non-financial performance 
measures which had been set to reflect 
company priorities for 2017. Separately,  
performance against their personal objectives 
was assessed on an individual basis. 

Based on Jes Staley's performance against the 
performance measures set at the beginning of 
the year, the Committee approved a 2017 
bonus of £1,065,000 (48.5% of maximum) of 
which 62.4% will be deferred in shares for a 
period of up to seven years. The Committee's 
deliberations on his 2017 personal 
performance have taken account of delivery 
against financial commitments including 
achieving the end state target range for the 
CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our 
cost: income ratio, while recognising that there 
is still some way to go in getting returns to 
where management, the Board and our 
investors expect them to be. The Committee 
has also taken account of the early completion 
of the strategic restructuring, including the sell 
down of BAGL and closure of Non-Core. The 

Governance: Remuneration report

Annual statement from the  
Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee

We are committed to pay being aligned to performance, 
while ensuring that we are able to attract and retain the 
employees critical to delivering our strategy.

Contents
Page

Annual statement 93
At a glance – performance and pay 
for 2017 95
2017 Group incentives 96
Remuneration policy for all 
employees 97
Directors' remuneration policy 100
Annual report on Directors' 
remuneration 103

Remuneration  
Committee members

Chairman Crawford Gillies 

Members Tim Breedon
 Mary Francis
 Dambisa Moyo

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 93

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Annual statement from the  
Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee
Committee noted the significant work that 
has taken place in planning, following the EU 
referendum outcome. The Committee also 
recognised that Jes Staley has made continued 
progress towards ensuring a high performing 
culture in line with our Values, and Barclays 
has made improvements in some customer 
and client metrics such as a reduction in 
customer complaints, while noting the need 
for further improvement. As announced last 
year, the Committee will keep Jes Staley's 2016 
variable remuneration under review pending 
the outcome of the investigation relating to 
his involvement in a whistleblowing matter. 
The Committee will make a final decision on 
outcome once that investigation is complete.

Based on Tushar Morzaria's performance 
against the performance measures set at 
the beginning of the year, the Committee 
approved a 2017 bonus of £747,000 (50.5% of 
maximum) of which 46.5% will be deferred in 
shares for a period of up to seven years. The 
Committee in particular noted that Tushar 
Morzaria had been instrumental in the 
execution of the strategy including the sell 
down of BAGL, the closure of Non-Core, the 
setting up of the ring-fenced bank in the UK 
and in Barclays achieving its end state range 
capital position. Tushar Morzaria has also 
demonstrated effective management of key 
external stakeholders. 

The Committee decided to make an award 
under the 2018–2020 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar 
Morzaria (based on their performance in 
2017) with a face value at grant of 120% 
of their respective Total fixed pay at 
31 December 2017. The Committee reviewed 
the performance measures of the LTIP to 
ensure they are appropriate, given our growth 
strategy and align the interests of executive 
Directors and shareholders. Return on tangible 
equity (RoTE) and cost: income ratio have 
been retained as the key financial metrics, 
with the weighting on RoTE increased to 50% 
to emphasise the focus on improving returns 
across the Group. The calibrations have also 
been established to maintain direct alignment 
with the Group's financial targets. The 
weighting on the cost: income ratio remains 
unchanged at 20%. CET1 ratio remains a 
key financial metric, but given the end state 
target range of c.13% has been achieved, the 
Committee concluded that this would now be 
more appropriate as an underpin measure on 
RoTE instead of a standalone measure.

In line with the Directors' remuneration policy 
(DRP) approved at the 2017 AGM, both 
executive Directors' Fixed Pay will be 
unchanged for 2018 at £2,350,000 for Jes 
Staley and £1,650,000 for Tushar Morzaria.

Fair pay agenda 
We are committed to fair pay, ensuring that 
all our employees are appropriately and fairly 
rewarded for their contributions. This concept 
touches on many areas of our work, including 
fair pay for the lowest paid in our organisation, 
as well as the alignment of executive reward 
outcomes with business performance. 
Additionally, the Board is committed to 
individuals being able to progress through 
the organisation based on capability and 
performance and irrespective of any other 
difference such as gender, age, ethnicity, 
religion, sexual orientation or disability. We 
take employees' views into consideration 
throughout our deliberations and continue to 
review potential approaches to build on this. 

Barclays' commitment to fair pay is illustrated 
by the repositioning of the incentive pools 
over recent years, during which incentive 
funding has been directed to provide more to 
junior employees, and our active engagement 
on pay matters with our unions to ensure 
that our staff are fairly treated across the 
organisation. The current 2017–2019 pay deal 
with Unite commits to a 7.5% agreed salary 
increase budget for the Unite recognised 
population and a minimum increase of 10% 
for the most junior graded employees over the 
course of the three-year deal. Barclays is also 
a long-standing supporter of the Living Wage 
under which Barclays commits to pay all 
UK permanent employees and those UK 
employees of third party contractors at least 
the current London or UK Living Wage. This is 
a commitment which we have also extended 
to our UK employed apprentices. By March 
2018, the entry level for permanent, non-
apprentice employees will already be above 
the Living Wage target level set for 2020 by 
the Government, two years early. Similarly, 
Barclays will meet the 2020 target level for its 
apprentice population by 2019.

Further detail of our activities in relation to fair 
pay may be found on pages 98 to 99.

Barclays has published its UK Gender Pay Gap 
report for the first time this year in line with 
UK requirements and further details can be 
found in the People section on pages 90 to 92. 

Looking ahead
The Committee continues to monitor with 
interest the Government's proposals in respect 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which 
will be an area of focus for the Committee and 
the Board going into 2018.

In relation to fair pay, we have already chosen 
to publish our pay ratios on page 110 of 
this report, two years in advance of the 
Government requirements to reflect the ratios 
between the pay of our Group Chief Executive 
and our UK employees. We will continue to 
review our fair pay policies and practices to 
ensure that they remain appropriate as this 
important topic continues to evolve.

We will also continue to work on the 
remuneration aspects of changes associated 
with structural reform, such as the addition of 
Remuneration Committees representing 
the two main subsidiary businesses.

We will, of course, continue to engage 
constructively with regulators, shareholders 
and other stakeholders and value the insight 
these discussions provide.

Remuneration report
We have provided an ‘At a glance' summary of 
2017 performance and pay on the next page. 
The annual report on Directors' remuneration 
provides further details. An abridged version 
of the DRP, as approved at the 2017 AGM, is 
set out on pages 100 to 102 for information.

In line with the UK regulations, we are seeking 
shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM for the 
Remuneration report (other than the part 
containing the abridged version of the DRP). 
Further details can be found in the 2018 AGM 
Notice of Meeting.

Crawford Gillies 
Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee
21 February 2018

Governance: Remuneration report

94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

At a glance – performance and pay for 2017

Jes Staley*

£8.30m

£3.87m

£4.23m

Fixed pay Pension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP

2016

2017

Max

Tushar Morzaria

£5.59m

£3.49m

£3.66m

Fixed pay Pension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP

2016

2017

Max

Executive Directors: Remuneration outcomes

Group performance and pay
Key strategic highlights
■■ Non-Core closed early
■■ Completion of BAGL sell down
■■ Launch of the Group Service Company
■■ Preparatory work to establish UK ring-

fenced entity

Pay outcomes
■■ Group incentive pool has reduced by 57% 

since 2010
■■ Group compensation to net income ratio 

reduced to 38.0% from 39.0% 

 
* Material items consist of charges for PPI, losses relating to the sell down of BAGL and a one-off net charge due to the remeasurement of US deferred tax assets.

Executive Directors: Share ownership
Shareholding requirement policy: 
■■ minimum of 200% of Total fixed pay* (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) 

within five years from date of appointment
■■ shareholding requirement for two years post termination of 100%  

of Total Fixed Pay (or pro-rata thereof) introduced from 2017.

Executive Directors: Performance outcomes

£1,506m
Group incentive pool 
down 2% 

£7,123m
Total compensation costs 
down 4% 

Annual bonus

(a) Jes Staley (b) Tushar Morzaria

*  Jes Staley was not a participant in the 2014-2016 and 2015-2017 LTIP cycles; the LTIP figures for 2016 and 2017 are therefore zero for him. 

£3,541m
Profit before tax 
up 10%  

5.6%
Group RoTE ex. litigation 
and conduct and other 
material items*  

73%
Cost: income ratio 
favourable 3% 

£1,065k
48.5% of maximum

£747k
50.5% of maximum

£882k*
52.7% of maximum

Jes Staley Date of appointment: 1 December 2015

£5,492k
£9,132k

Tushar Morzaria Date of appointment: 15 October 2013

£3,700k
£4,354k

Requirement Actual
* Equivalent to 457% of Salary for Jes Staley under the previous DRP.

Financial (60%)

Performance measures (% weightings)

Profit before tax excl. material items (22.5%)

CET1 ratio (22.5%)

Cost: income ratio excl. material items (15%)

Strategic/Non-financial (20%)

Personal objectives (20%)

100%0% 50%

Jes Staley

Tushar Morzaria

0 26 52

Financial (60%)

Net Generated Equity (30%)

Core (RoRWA) excl. own credit (20%)

Non-Core drag on RoE excl. material items (10%)

Loan loss rate (10%)

Balanced Scorecard (30%)

100%0% 50%Performance measures (% weightings)

2015–2017 Long Term Incentive Plan 

(Tushar Morzaria only)

* By reference to Q4 2017 average share price.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 95

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

2017 Group incentives

2017 pay and performance headlines
The key performance considerations which the Committee took into account in making its remuneration decisions for 2017 are highlighted below:
■■ Significant strategic progress was made in 2017 with restructuring completed including:

 – the closure of Non-Core
 – completion of BAGL sell down
 – launch of the Group Service Company
 – preparatory work to establish the UK ring-fenced entity

■■ Group profit before tax was up 10% at £3,541m (2016: £3,230m). Group profit before tax excluding material items was up 16% at £4,242m 
(2016: £3,649m*)

■■ Group RoTE was negative 3.6% (2016: positive 3.6%). Excluding litigation and conduct and other material items, Group RoTE was 5.6%
■■ Group CET1 ratio was up to13.3% (2016: 12.4%).

The pay outcomes and decisions can be summarised as follows:
■■ total compensation costs decreased 4% to £7,123m (2016: £7,445m) 
■■ the Group incentive pool was down 2% at £1,506m (2016: £1,533m)
■■ Group compensation to net income ratio was 38.0% (2016: 39.0%) 
■■ Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) front-office incentive awards were also slightly down at £864m (2016: £875m). CIB front-office 

compensation to net income ratio was 26.1% (2016: 26.7%)
■■ robust differentiation based on business and individual performance.

* Material items in 2016 included provisions for UK customer redress (£1bn), gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited £615m and own credit (£35m).

2017 incentive award decisions
The Committee's 2017 incentives decisions took full consideration of financial and non-financial performance and also the material repositioning 
of incentives undertaken since 2010. Since 2010, the Group incentive pool has declined steadily, from £3,484m in 2010 to £1,506m in 2017 – a 
decrease of 57% over seven years. 

2010 2013 2014a 2015b 20162011 2012

(57%) Group£3,484m

£2,378m

£1,860m

£1,544m

£2,578m

£2,168m

£1,533m

2017

£1,506m

Notes
a Part of the reduction in incentive pools in 2014 was 

due to the introduction of Role Based Pay (RBP).
b The 2015 Group incentive pool has been restated from 

£1,669m to reflect the treatment of BAGL 
as a discontinued operation. The 2010 – 2014 Group 
incentive pools have not been restated.

Total incentive awards granted – current year
Barclays Group 

Year ended
31.12.17

£m

Year ended
31.12.16

£m % change

Incentive awards granted 
Incentive pool 1,432 1,459 2
Commissions and other incentives 74 74 –
Total incentive awards granted 1,506 1,533 2

Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge:
Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year (302) (300) (1)
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 457 690 34
Othera 29 (26)
Income statement charge for performance costs 1,690 1,897 11

Total compensation costs 7,123 7,445 4

Proportion of incentive pool that is deferred 31% 30%

Note
a Difference between incentive awards granted and income statement charge for commissions and other incentives.

This section provides details of how the 2017 total incentive award decisions were made.

96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration policy for all employees

Remuneration philosophy
In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays' overarching 
remuneration approach and is set out below.

Barclays' remuneration philosophy

Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays' strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees. This 
means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent to 
deliver against our strategy, and paying the right amount for that 
talent

Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees' interests are aligned with those of investors (equity 
and debt holders), both in structure and the appropriate balance of 
returns

Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to 
stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable 
role in society

Support Barclays' Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values. Our 
Values and culture should drive the way that business is conducted

Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with the 
Bank's risk appetite and conduct expectations

Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward 
our employees. Remuneration structures should be as simple as 
possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the 
behaviours they reward

Performance and remuneration 
Barclays' remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value. Our remuneration 
philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical to 
enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values. Employees who adhere to the Barclays' Values and contribute to Barclays' 
success are rewarded accordingly.

This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their 
objectives (‘what' they will deliver) to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good client/customer 
outcomes. Behavioural expectations (‘how' people will achieve their objectives) are set in the context of our Values. 

Performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria. Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall 
performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well as 
input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.

Through our approach to performance, the equal importance of both ‘what' an individual has delivered as well as ‘how' the individual has 
achieved this is emphasised, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension. Both of these elements are assessed and rated 
independently of each other. There is no requirement to have an overall rating which allows for more robust and reflective conversations between 
managers and team members on the individual components of performance.

A key part of the performance philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year. This helps manage performance messages 
effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching, feedback and support where needed.

By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays' strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment 
between what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.

Risk, conduct and remuneration
Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations 
of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders. The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate 
adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.

The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process. The Panel is chaired by the Chief Risk 
Officer and includes senior representatives from the key control functions of Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit, Legal and HR as well as the CEOs of 
Barclays UK and Barclays International. It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.

We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected in 
individual remuneration decisions. Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring that risk and conduct issues are considered when 
assessing performance and making remuneration decisions. In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals 
involved in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or 
business to ensure these issues are also considered. When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as 
whether an individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including 
staff who drive the Group's culture and set its strategy. 

This section sets out Barclays' remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration 
packages, and how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 97

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration policy for all employees

Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include:

Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible (either directly or indirectly) 
in a risk or misconduct event.

Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting 
level of deferred bonuses (including to nil) at its discretion. Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not 
limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.

Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a Material Risk Taker (MRT) on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of 
years for which they are a MRT. Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven-year period from the date on which 
variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: (i) there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and/or 
(ii) the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individual's proximity to and 
responsibility for that incident.

Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory 
investigations at the end of the seven-year clawback period.

In addition to reductions to individuals' bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific risk 
and conduct events. For 2017, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance and the 
additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of c.£180m.

We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial factors 
that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on 
customers, markets and other stakeholders. The Committee was supported in its consideration of this adjustment by the Board Risk Committee 
and the Board Reputation Committee.

Fair pay agenda
Barclays continues to look holistically at different aspects of how we pay our people, to ensure that we deliver fair and effective pay for 
performance, with pay decisions that are aligned with Barclays' Values.  

This can be described as our fair pay agenda, which incorporates a number of themes currently highlighted by the Government and the media, 
although in practice our approaches to many of these aspects have evolved over many years.

Our main areas of focus are:
■■ Fair pay for the lowest paid

 – Ensuring our people receive a fair day's pay for a fair day's work.
 – Barclays has been committed to paying the Living Wage since 2004, with all UK permanent employees and those UK employees of third party 
contractors who provide services to us at our sites being paid at least the current National or London Living Wage. This is a commitment we 
have also extended to all our UK employed apprentices. By March 2018, the entry level pay for permanent, non-apprentice employees, will 
already be above the Living Wage target level set for 2020 by the Government, two years early. Similarly, Barclays will meet the 2020 target 
Living Wage level for its apprentice population by 2019.

 – Our current pay deal with Unite (2017–2019) commits to a 7.5% agreed salary increase budget for the Unite recognised population. As part of 
the pay deal, our commitment to track the Living Wage and continue to progress junior pay will provide a 10% increase across the three years 
for the most junior employees. 

■■ Ensuring every individual has the opportunity to progress through the organisation and earn more
 – Supporting initiatives to eliminate any ‘glass ceiling' and ensure equal opportunities for progression for every individual.
 – We are an equal opportunities employer and have a number of initiatives in place to support diversity in our workplace e.g. increasing female 
representation at all levels across Barclays remains a core focus of our talent management and leadership succession processes.

 – Barclays has published its UK Gender Pay Gap for the first time this year (pages 90 to 92), as well as continuing to report the proportion of 
women at our more senior corporate grades. 

■■ Equal pay
 – Barclays fully supports equal pay legislation (in place in the UK since 1970).
 – Barclays is committed to ensuring all employees are fairly paid for the work they do, and that men and women receive equal pay for the same 
or similar roles.  We are explicit with those who make pay decisions that those pay decisions must not, directly or indirectly, take into account 
an individual's gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, maternity, shared parental, paternity or parental 
leave, veteran status or disability.

 – To ensure our pay decisions are fair, and reflect our legal obligations, Barclays has a number of policies and processes in place to ensure that 
line management decisions that are made at the beginning on hiring and throughout the employment cycle are free from unlawful bias. This 
includes ensuring that our internal policies and processes are neutral in their application and free from any conscious or unconscious bias. We 
also share key data annually with Unite concerning their recognised population on pay distribution.

■■ Ensuring employees, like any other stakeholders, are appropriately represented in remuneration decision-making
 – Employee views are represented by senior management to the Committee. We continue to review potential approaches to build on this.
 – Employees are represented by their management through our internal remuneration decision-making processes.  We are also proud of our 
long-standing relationship with Unite, through which we engage positively on remuneration.

98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
■■ Ensuring executive pay and employee pay are linked to business performance
 – The view that executive and employee remuneration should both be linked to the performance of the Company is one shared by the 
Committee.

 – Pay approaches for our executive Directors are demonstrably aligned to business performance through financial, non-financial performance 
and risk based performance measures, as described in the DRP.

 – Similar performance considerations are made by the Committee when determining the appropriate level of incentive funding for all of our people.

Remuneration structure
The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which can be found on 
pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report. The primary exception being that the executive Directors participate in the Barclays' LTIP and receive 
part of their Fixed Pay in Barclays PLC shares.

Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus. Employees in some customer-facing 
businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans, including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure. 
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays' Values. Some senior employees also receive Role Based Pay (RBP). 
Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to fixed remuneration. A total of 1,641 (2016: 1,561) individuals were MRTs 
in 2017. Capital requirements regulation (CRR) quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set out on pages 189 to 191 of Barclays PLC 2017 Pillar 3 
Report.

The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the 
parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee. Remuneration for control function employees is less weighted towards 
variable remuneration as compared to front-office employees and variable remuneration is typically limited to one times fixed remuneration. This 
leads to less volatility in overall control function remuneration as compared to front-office outcomes. 

Fixed remuneration

Salary Salaries reflect individuals' skills and experience and are reviewed annually in the context of annual performance assessment. 
They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate. Salaries 
may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.

Role Based Pay 
(RBP)

A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth of their 
role.

Pension and 
benefits

The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver 
Barclays' strategy. Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, 
healthcare, life assurance and Barclays' share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits. The cost of providing 
these benefits is defined and controlled.

Variable remuneration 

Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees for 
demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays' Values.

The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to 
react to events and market circumstances. Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and 
mobile market for talent in the financial services sector. The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed 
remuneration paid to individuals and also to ensure an appropriate amount is deferred to future years.

The typical deferral structures are:
For MRTs: For non-MRTs:

Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred
< £500,000 40% of total award Up to £65,000 0%
£500,000 to £1,000,000 60% of total award > £65,000 Graduated level of deferral
≥ £1,000,000 60% up to £1,000,000

100% above £1,000,000

Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the 
deferred cash and share plans (as amended from time to time) and continued service. Deferred bonuses are subject to either a 
3, 5 or 7 year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.

Where dividend equivalents cannot be delivered on deferred bonus shares, the number of deferred bonus shares awarded will be 
calculated using a share price discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.

Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay. We also encourage wider 
employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans. 86% of the global employee population is eligible to participate 
(up from 82% in 2016).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 99

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Directors' remuneration policy
Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors
Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2018

Fixed Pay
To reward skills and experience 
appropriate for the breadth and 
depth of the role and to provide 
the basis for a competitive 
remuneration package

Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice and historical 
market data (on which the Committee receives independent advice), 
and reflects the individual's experience and role.

Total compensation is benchmarked against comparable roles in banks.

50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash (paid monthly), and 50% is 
delivered in shares. The shares are delivered quarterly and are subject to 
a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years (20% each year). 
As the executive Directors beneficially own the shares, they will be 
entitled to any dividends paid on those shares.

There are no performance measures.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.

No change from 2017.
■■ Jes Staley: £2,350,000
■■ Tushar Morzaria: £1,650,000

These amounts are fixed and will 
not change during the policy 
period for these individuals.



Pension
To enable executive Directors 
to build long-term retirement 
savings

Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu of 
participation in a pension arrangement.

No change from 2017.
■■ Jes Staley: £396,000
■■ Tushar Morzaria: £200,000

These amounts are fixed and will 
not change during the policy 
period for these individuals. 

Benefits
To provide a competitive and 
cost effective benefits package 
appropriate to the role and 
location

Executive Directors' benefits provision includes, but is not restricted to, 
private medical cover, annual health check, life and ill health income 
protection, car cash allowance, and use of a Company vehicle and 
driver when required for business purposes.

In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to relocate, 
additional support would be provided for a defined and limited period 
of time in line with Barclays' general employee mobility policy. Barclays 
will pay the tax on relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also 
not pay tax on any other employment income.

No change from 2017.

Annual bonus
To reward delivery of short-
term financial targets set each 
year, the individual 
performance of the executive 
Directors in achieving those 
targets, and their contribution 
to delivering Barclays' strategic 
objectives

Delivery in part in shares with 
a holding period increases 
alignment with shareholders. 
Deferred bonuses encourage 
longer term focus and 
retention

The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 80% of Total fixed pay. For 
these purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

The performance measures include financial and non-financial 
measures which also include risk related measures and personal 
objectives. Financial measures will be at least 60% of the bonus 
opportunity. The Committee has discretion to vary the measures and 
their respective weighting within each category.

Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and shares, a 
proportion of which may be deferred and/or subject to a holding period.

Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured so that, in 
combination with any LTIP award, the proportion of variable pay that is 
deferred is no less than that required by regulations. 

Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred bonus shares. If 
dividend equivalents are not permissible under regulations, the number 
of shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price 
discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield.

A notional discount may be applied to deferred bonuses for the 
purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by 
regulations.

Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for 
a period of seven years (10 years in specific circumstances) from the 
date of award.

Details of performance measures 
are set out on page 109.

Shares issued are subject to a 
holding period of one year after 
vesting.

As dividend equivalents are not 
permissible under regulations, the 
number of shares to be awarded 
will be calculated using a share 
price discounted to reflect the 
absence of dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

This section sets out a summary of the Barclays' forward-looking DRP and is provided for information only. The DRP was approved at the 2017 
AGM held on 10 May 2017 and applies for three years from that date. The full DRP can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual 
Report or at home.barclays/annualreport 

100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2018

Annual bonus
continued

Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid following the 
performance year to which they relate, normally in March. Non-deferred 
share bonuses are also awarded normally in March and are subject to a 
holding period (after the payment of tax) in line with regulations. 

Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred shares vest 
faster than permitted by regulations (currently in five equal tranches 
with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the 
last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of grant). Any 
shares that vest are subject to an additional holding period (after 
payment of tax) in line with regulations.

Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) award
To reward execution of 
Barclays' strategy over a 
multi-year period

Long-term performance 
measurement, deferral and 
holding periods encourage a 
long-term view and align 
executive Directors' interests 
with those of shareholders. 
Malus and clawback provisions 
discourage excessive risk-
taking and inappropriate 
behaviours

The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of Total fixed pay. For these 
purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

Forward-looking performance measures will be based on financial 
performance and other long-term strategic measures. Financial 
measures will be at least 70% of the total opportunity. Straight-line 
vesting applies between threshold and maximum for the financial 
measures with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.

LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the annual 
bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred is no less than that 
required by regulations.

The Committee has discretion to vary the measures year on year and 
their respective weighting within each category. The Committee also 
has discretion to amend targets, measures and the number of awards in 
exceptional circumstances and to reduce the vesting of any award, 
including to nil, if it deems that the outcome is not consistent with 
performance.

Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred shares. If dividend 
equivalents are not permissible under the regulations, the number of 
shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted 
by reference to the expected dividend yield.

A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the purposes of 
calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.

Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for 
a period of seven years (10 years in specific circumstances) from the 
date of award.

No LTIP award vests before the third anniversary of grant and an award 
vests no faster than permitted by regulations (currently in five equal 
tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third 
anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the 
seventh anniversary of the grant date). Any shares that vest are subject 
to an additional holding period (after payment of tax) in line with 
regulations.

Details of performance measures 
and targets for awards to be made 
in 2018 (in respect of 2017) are 
set out on page 107.

For awards to be made in respect 
of 2018, the measures and targets 
will be determined at the end of 
2018 for the performance period 
commencing on 1 January 2019.

On vesting, the award is subject 
to a holding period of one year.

As dividend equivalents are not 
permissible under regulations, the 
number of shares to be awarded 
will be calculated using a share 
price discounted to reflect the 
absence of dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

Shareholding requirement
To further enhance the 
alignment of shareholders' and 
executive Directors' interests in 
long-term value creation

Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of Total fixed 
pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) within five years from the date of 
appointment as executive Director.

Executive Directors must also continue to hold a shareholding of 100% 
of Total fixed pay (or pro-rata thereof) for two years post-termination. 

No change from 2017. 

(Equivalent to 457% of Salary for 
the Group Chief Executive under 
the previous DRP.)

Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in all employee share plans, for example Barclays Sharesave and Barclays Sharepurchase, on the 
same basis as all other employees.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 101

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Directors' remuneration policy

Remuneration policy summary – non-executive Directors
Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2018

Fees
Reflect individual 
responsibilities and 
membership of Board 
Committees and are set to 
attract non-executive Directors 
who have relevant skills and 
experience to oversee the 
implementation of our strategy

Fees are set at a level which 
reflects the role, responsibilities 
and time commitment which 
are expected from the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman 
and non-executive Directors

The Chairman and Deputy Chairman are paid an all-inclusive fee for all 
Board responsibilities. The Chairman has a minimum time commitment 
equivalent to at least 80% of a full-time role. The other non-executive 
Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable where 
individuals serve as a member or Chairman of a Committee of the Board. 

Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole. Other than in 
exceptional circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 20% 
above the current fee levels during this policy period (basic fees last 
increased in 2011).

£30,000 (Chairman: £100,000) after tax and national insurance 
contributions per annum of each non-executive Director's basic fee 
is used to purchase Barclays' shares which are retained on the non-
executive Director's behalf until they retire from the Board.

Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees as directors of 
subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC.

No change from 2017.

Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the 
terms of the Barclays' scheme rules from time to time, and is provided 
with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business 
purposes. 

Benefits which are minor in nature and do not exceed a cost of £500 
may be provided to non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.

No change from 2017.

Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any 
reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred for business reasons. 
Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.

No change from 2017.

Service contracts and letters of appointment 
All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment. Copies of the service contracts 
and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company's registered office. The dates of the current Directors' service contracts and 
letters of appointment are shown in the table below.

Effective date
Chairman
John McFarlane 1 January 2015 (non-executive Director), 24 April 2015 (Chairman)
Executive Directors
Jes Staley 1 December 2015
Tushar Morzaria 15 October 2013
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 18 September 2013
Tim Breedon 1 November 2012
Sir Ian Cheshire 3 April 2017
Mary Francis 1 October 2016
Crawford Gillies 1 May 2014
Sir Gerry Grimstone 1 January 2016
Reuben Jeffery III 16 July 2009
Matthew Lester 1 September 2017
Dambisa Moyo 1 May 2010
Diane Schueneman 25 June 2015
Mike Turner 1 January 2018

102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Executive Directors
Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2017 remuneration (audited)
The following table shows a single total figure for 2017 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director together with 
comparative figures for 2016.

Fixed Paya
£000

Taxable benefits
£000

Annual bonus
£000

LTIP
£000

Pension
£000

Total
£000

2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 
Jes Staleyb 2,350  2,350 62 169 1,065 1,318 – – 396 396 3,873  4,233
Tushar Morzariac 1,614 1,550 44 44 747 854 882 1,008 200 200 3,487 3,656

Notes
a The 2016 figures for Fixed Pay relate to Salary and RBP. 
b Jes Staley's 2016 benefits figure includes relocation expenses.
c Tushar Morzaria's Fixed Pay increased to £1,650,000 with effect from 10 May 2017.

Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors (audited)
Fixed Pay
Fixed Pay was introduced for 2017, replacing Salary and RBP, and is delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares (subject to a five-year holding period 
lifting pro-rata). 

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company 
vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.

Annual bonus
Annual bonuses are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate. The Committee considered the executive Directors' 
performance against the financial (60% weighting) and strategic/non-financial (20% weighting) performance measures which had been set to 
reflect company priorities for 2017. Performance against their individual personal objectives (20% weighting) was assessed on an individual basis.

2017 annual bonus outcomes
Financial (60% weighting)
The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures was based on a straight-line outcome between 
25% for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance.

The formulaic outcome from 2017 performance against the financial measures set at the beginning of the year gave a total of 22.5% out of 60% 
being payable attributable to those measures. A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.

Financial performance measure Weighting
Threshold

25%
 Maximum

100%
2017

Actual
2017

Outcome
Profit before tax (excluding material items) 22.5% £5.10bn £6.20bn £4.24bn 0%
CET1 ratio 22.5% 12.6% 13.0% 13.3% 22.5%
Cost: income ratio (excluding material items) 15.0% 67.0% 63.0% 70.0% 0%
Total Financial 60% 22.5%

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

This section explains how our Directors' remuneration policy was implemented during 2017.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 103

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Strategic (20% weighting)
Progress in relation to each of the strategic measures, organised around three main categories, was assessed by the Committee. The Committee 
used the following scale in relation to each measure: 0% to 1% firmly below performance expectations, 1.5% to 3% slightly below performance 
expectations, 3.5% to 5.5% meeting or slightly exceeding performance expectations, and 6% to 7% clearly above performance expectations. 
Based on this approach to assessing performance against 2017 Group Performance Measurement Framework milestones, the Committee agreed 
a 13% outcome out of a maximum of 20%. The assessment is provided in the following table. 

Measure
2017 

Outcome
Customer and Client ■■ We have continued to make progress with our customer and client agenda. However, 

complaints remain an ongoing area of focus for management and the Board.
■■ Barclays Relationship Net Promoter Score (NPS) ended the year with an improved score of +14 

(2016: +10) while Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS remained relatively flat (2017: +9). 
Barclaycard International business also continued to perform well on Relationship NPS.

■■ Underlying UK complaint volumes (Barclays UK, excluding PPI) reduced 13% year on year, 
however, there has been a small increase in PPI complaints (up 2% year on year) driven largely 
by the FCA deadline announcement. Barclays UK complaint volumes, including PPI, were down 
7% year on year. Barclays International complaints reduced by 19% year on year. Complaints 
reduction remains a priority across the Group, and despite improvements in 2017, Barclays 
has more work to do, as can be seen from our position in the H1 2017 FCA complaints tables 
in the UK.

■■ The number of customers and clients in the UK using our digital services on a regular basis has 
increased to over 10 million customers (2016: nearly 9.5m).

■■ In our home markets of the UK and US, our CIB ranked 6th place by fee share across M&A, 
equity and debt capital markets and syndicated loan transactions (2016: 5th); and we were 
highly encouraged by the 1st place CIB ranking in the UK (Dealogic). 

3.0%

Colleague ■■ Overall this has been a year of progress on increasing the diversity of our workforce and in 
building an inclusive and engaged culture. 

■■ Employee sustainable engagement improved by 3% year on year to 78%, with the majority 
of key survey question results recording improvements and the rest remaining stable.

■■ We remain focused on improving our gender diversity. We have made a 1% improvement in 
the percentage of female Managing Directors and Directors to 23% (on a like for like basis 
excluding Africa). Recognising the importance of strengthening our talent pipeline, we also 
have an ambition for 50% female graduate hires and have ended 2017 at 40%.

■■ External recognition includes: Stonewall recognising Barclays as one of 12 Top Global 
Employers; the Human Rights Campaign awarding Barclays 100% on their corporate equality 
index; Working Families UK recognising Barclays as one of the top 10 Employers for Working 
Families in 2017; and Barclays was acknowledged as a Top 50 Employer through the Social 
Mobility Employer Index in 2017.

4.5% 

Citizenship ■■ This has been a very positive year in the Citizenship space, with further progress in many areas. 
■■ We helped upskill over 2.1 million people (2016 1.7 million), driven by a range of regional 

employability partnerships and our flagship LifeSkills programme in the UK.
■■ Barclays delivered £31.7bn in financing for selected social and environmental segments 

(2016: £30.5bn).
■■ We helped empower around 205,000 people (2016: 249,000) through initiatives such as: 

Barclaycard Initial for those with a limited credit history; our Digital Eagles network, comprised 
of specially trained Barclays' employees working to provide free technology support to 
customers and non-customers; and the continued development of learning platforms.

■■ We reduced carbon emissions by 26.1% against the 2015 baseline, making good progress 
against our target of 30% reduction by 2018.

■■ We also achieved 89% (2016: 88%) on-time payment by value to our suppliers, ahead of our 
target of 85%, and published an updated Statement on Modern Slavery.

5.5%

13% out of 20%

Further details on the Group Performance Measurement Framework can be found on pages 15 to 22.

104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives
Performance against each of the executive Directors' individual personal objectives (20% weighting overall) was assessed by the Committee on an 
individual basis. 

(i) Jes Staley
A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.

Performance measure Weighting
2017 

Outcome
Financial See table on page 103 60% 22.5%
Strategic See table on page 104 20% 13.0%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment – see below 20% 13.0%
Total 100% 48.5%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 48.5%

The Committee assessed Jes Staley's performance against his 2017 personal objectives (as set out on page 126 of the 2016 Annual Report). In 
relation to the joint personal objectives, the Committee has taken account of delivery against financial commitments including achieving the end 
state target range for the CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our cost: income ratio, while recognising that there is still some way to go in 
getting returns where management, the Board and our investors expect them to be. The Committee has also recognised the early closure of 
Non-Core and successful reintegration of remaining assets/businesses into Core as well as the achievement of the accounting deconsolidation 
and regulatory proportional consolidation of BAGL. It noted that the structural reform programme has been well executed, with the launch of the 
Group Service Company achieved. The Committee noted the significant work that has taken place in planning following the EU referendum 
outcome. Risk and control have also continued to be managed effectively, with further progress in resolving legacy conduct and litigation matters.

In relation to his individual objectives, the Committee recognises that Jes Staley has made continued progress towards ensuring a high performing 
culture in line with our Values, and employee engagement has been strengthened in 2017. Barclays has made improvements in some customer 
and client metrics such as a reduction in customer complaints, while noting the need for further improvement. Succession planning for senior 
roles has been improved, and continued progress made in improving the percentage of women in senior leadership roles (5th consecutive year 
increasing the percentage of female Managing Directors and Directors). Finally, significant improvements have been made to the Group's control 
environment, with a focus on operations and technology infrastructure, particularly through the establishment of the Group Service Company.

While recognising the strong strategic delivery, given some of the remaining challenges, particularly around returns, the Committee judged that 
13% of a maximum of 20% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 48.5% of maximum bonus opportunity being 
achieved. The Committee considered the outcome and agreed that a 2017 annual bonus of £1,065,000 (48.5% of maximum) was appropriate, of 
which 62.4% is deferred under the Share Value Plan in line with the Group-wide deferral structure.

(ii) Tushar Morzaria
A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.

Performance measure Weighting
2017

Outcome
Financial See table on page 103 60% 22.5%
Strategic See table on page 104 20% 13.0%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment – see below 20% 15.0%
Total 100% 50.5%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 50.5%

The Committee assessed Tushar Morzaria's performance against his 2017 personal objectives (as set out on page 126 of the 2016 Annual Report). 
In relation to the joint personal objectives, the Committee recognised Tushar Morzaria's contribution to the financial outcomes, including 
achieving the end state target range for the CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our cost: income ratio. The Committee also recognised that 
Tushar Morzaria had been instrumental in the execution of the strategy including the closure of Non-Core, the accounting deconsolidation and 
regulatory proportional consolidation of BAGL and the structural reform programme in the UK. He has also made significant contributions to 
Barclays' planning in response to the EU referendum outcome and plays a key leadership role in managing risk and control as well as settling 
legacy conduct and litigation issues.

In relation to his individual objectives, the Committee recognises that he is extremely well respected by both internal and external stakeholders 
including the Board, regulators, stakeholders, investors and colleagues across the organisation, effectively managing external relationships and the 
reputation of the Group. He has also continued to strengthen his team within Finance and has exemplified the Values expected by the Board – he 
is tireless in his commitment to the organisation and defines the notion of partnership. Given his strong personal performance during 2017, the 
Committee judged that 15% of a maximum 20% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 50.5% of maximum bonus opportunity 
being achieved. The Committee considered the outcome and agreed that a 2017 annual bonus of £747,000 (50.5% of maximum) was appropriate, 
of which 46.5% is deferred under the Share Value Plan in line with the Group-wide deferral structure. 

In line with the DRP, and due to the regulations prohibiting dividend equivalents being paid on unvested deferred share awards, the number of 
shares awarded to each executive Director under the Share Value Plan will be calculated using a share price at the date of award, discounted to 
reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period. The valuation will be aligned to IFRS 2, with the market expectations of 
dividends during the deferral period being assessed by an independent adviser. These shares will vest in five equal tranches from the third to 
seventh anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time). All shares (whether deferred or not) are 
subject to a further one-year holding period from the point of release. 2017 bonuses are subject to clawback provisions and, additionally, 
unvested deferred 2017 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses 
(including to nil).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 105

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

LTIP
The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzaria's 2017 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP 
award granted in 2015 in respect of performance period 2015–2017 (by reference to Q4 2017 average share price). As Jes Staley was not a 
participant in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him. Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over 
the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 with straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points. The 
performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual % of award vesting
Net generated equitya 30% 7.5% of award vests for 

Net generated equity of 
£1,363m

Net generated equity 
of £1,844m

£3,427m 30.0%

Core return on risk weighted 
assets (RoRWA) excluding 
own credit

20% 5% of award vests for 
average annual Core 
RoRWA of 1.34%

Average annual Core 
RoRWA of 1.81%

0.68% 0.0%

Non-Core drag on return on 
equity (RoE) excluding 
material items

10% 2.5% of award vests for 
Non-Core drag on RoE 
of −4.02%

Non-Core drag on RoE 
of −2.97%

−3.85% 3.7%

Loan loss rate 10% 2.5% of award vests for 
average annual loan loss 
rate of 70bps

Average annual loss rate 
of 55bps or below

54bps 10.0%

Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard was 
assessed by the Committee to determine the 
percentage of the award that may vest between 0% 
and 30%. Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced 
Scorecard has equal weighting.

See below 9.0%

Total 52.7%

Note
a Net generated equity is a metric which converts changes in the CET1 ratio into an absolute capital equivalent measure. The measure is expressed as an average over the period.

A summary of the Committee's assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period is 
provided below.

Category Weighting Performance
Vesting out of maximum 
6% for each ‘C'

Customer and 
Client

6% ■■ Barclays UK Relationship NPS ended the year with a score +14, with improvement 
also seen in Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS (c.+2). However, performance against 
peers remained 4th throughout the period, below our 2018 target of 1st.

■■ Client Franchise Rank remained stable at 5th throughout the period. While this is a 
positive result given our shift in strategy to focus more narrowly on geographies 
and businesses of strength in the Investment Bank, we are not on track to achieve 
the 2018 target of Top 3.

1%

Colleague 6% ■■ Continued improvement of +1% per year in the female representation across senior 
leadership roles (on a like for like basis excluding Africa) to 23% at the end of 2017.

■■ Colleague engagement improved from 74% in 2014 to 75% in 2015 and 2016 and 
to 78% in 2017. However, engagement remains significantly below our 2018 targets.

2%

Citizenship 6% ■■ Met or exceeded 10/11 initiatives in 2015 and 6/6 Shared Growth Ambition goals in 
2016 and 2017.  Of particular note: 
– financing to social and environmental segments rising to £31.7bn in 2017 
– global carbon emissions decreased 26.1% against the 2015 baseline 
– supplier payment on time exceeded target of 85% throughout the period.

4%

Conduct 6% ■■ Conduct reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, has remained at 5.4 over 
the period and below our 2018 target of 6.5.

0%

Company 6% ■■ Significant strengthening in the CET1 ratio over the period, with the CET1 ratio now 
within our end-state target range.

■■ However, returns excluding material items (both RoE and RoTE) were below target 
through much of the period.

■■ Cost: income ratio improved but still below long term target.

2%

Total 30% 9%

The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the 
Group. The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be considered for release at 
52.7% of the maximum number of shares under the total award. The shares are scheduled to be released in March 2018. After release, the shares 
are subject to an additional two year holding period.

Pension
Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions. The cash allowance in 2017 was £396,000 for Jes Staley and £200,000 for 
Tushar Morzaria. No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays' pension plans.

106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Executive Directors: other LTIP awards
The Directors' remuneration reporting regulations require inclusion in the single total figure of only the value of the LTIP awards whose last year of 
performance ends in the relevant financial year and whose vesting outcome is known. For 2017, this is the award to Tushar Morzaria under the 
2015–2017 LTIP cycle and further details are set out on page 106. This section sets out other LTIP cycles in which the executive Directors 
participate, the outcome of which remains dependent on future performance.

LTIP awards to be granted during 2018
The Committee decided to make an award under the 2018–2020 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria (based on their performance in 
2017) with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2017.

The 2018–2020 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Average return on tangible 
equity (RoTE) excluding 
material items

50% 10% of award vests for average RoTE of 7.75% 
(based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c.13%)

Average RoTE of 10.25%

Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period:
■■ if CET1 goes below the mandatory distribution restrictions (MDR) hurdlea in any year of the 

period, no part of the RoTE element will vest
■■ if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle +150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, 

the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element 
should vest, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.

Average cost: income ratio 
excluding material items

20% 4% of award vests for average cost: income 
ratio of 62.5%

Average cost: income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk 
alignment framework reviewed with the regulators. The current framework measures 
performance against three broad categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and 
Conduct – using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics. The framework may be 
updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk strategy. Specific targets within each of 
the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure will be made 
in the 2020 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.

Strategic/Non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance 
Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the 
period against each category. Performance against the Strategic/Non-financial measures will be 
assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 
0% and 15%. The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, 
Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. Measures will 
likely include, but will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, client rankings and market shares for the 

CIB, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients.
■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee 

sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures.
■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in 

Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.

Note
a The CET1 ratio underpin in 2018 will reference the expected end-state MDR hurdle, currently expected to be 11.4%.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures. 

The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 107

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Outstanding LTIP awards
(i) LTIP awards granted during 2016
The performance measures for the awards made under the 2016–2018 LTIP cycle are as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Return on tangible equity 
(RoTE) excluding material 
items

25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE 
of 7.5%

Average RoTE of 10.0%

CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest. 
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory 
requirements (11.3% on 31 December 2018)

CET1 ratio as at 31 December 
2018

25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of 11.6% CET1 ratio of 12.7%

Cost: income ratio excluding 
material items

20% 5% of award vests for average cost: income 
ratio of 66%

Average cost: income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input from the Group 
Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee as appropriate, to 
determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. Since its 
introduction in 2016, the Risk Scorecard has been aligned by the Committee to the annual 
incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators. Following this alignment, the 
current framework measures performance against three broad categories – Capital and Liquidity, 
Control Environment and Conduct – using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics. 
Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. 
Retrospective disclosure of performance will be made in the 2018 Remuneration report subject 
to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.

Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine the 
percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced 
Scorecard has equal weighting. Assessment will be made against progress towards the 2018 targets.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures. 

The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group. 

(ii) LTIP awards granted during 2017
An award was made to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria on 23 June 2017 under the 2017–2019 LTIP cycle at a share price on the date of grant of 
£1.9545, in accordance with our DRP. This is the price used to calculate the face value below. 

% of
Total fixed pay

Number
of shares

Face value
at grant

Performance
period

Jes Staley 120% 1,685,955 3,295,200 2017–2019
Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,074,443 2,100,000 2017–2019

The performance measures for the 2017–2019 LTIP awards are as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Return on tangible equity 
(RoTE) excluding material 
items

25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE 
excluding material items of 7.5%

Average RoTE excluding material items of 9.5%

CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest. 
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory 
requirements (11.3% on 31 December 2018)

CET1 ratio as at  
31 December 2019

25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio 100 basis 
points above the MDR hurdle

CET1 ratio 200 basis points above the MDR 
hurdle

Cost: income ratio excluding 
material items

20% 5% of award vests for average 
cost: income ratio of 63%

Average cost: income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment 
framework reviewed with the regulators. The current framework measures performance against 
three broad categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct – using a 
combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics. The framework may be updated from time 
to time in line with the Group's risk strategy. Specific targets within each of the categories are 
deemed to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2019 
Remuneration report.

Strategic/Non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance 
Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the 
period against each category. Performance against the Strategic/Non-financial measures will be 
assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% 
and 15%. The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, 
Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. Measures will 
likely include, but will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the 

Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to 
customers and clients

■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee 
sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures

■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship 
activities and external benchmarks and surveys.

108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures. 

The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group. 

Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2018
The executive Directors' package for 2018 can be summarised as follows. Further details can be found on pages 100 to 101.

Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Comments
Fixed Pay £2,350,000 £1,650,000 No change from 2017.
Pension £396,000 £200,000 No change from 2017.
Maximum Bonus 80% of Total fixed paya 80% of Total fixed paya Total variable opportunity unchanged. 

Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory 
deferral purposes.

Maximum LTIP 120% of Total fixed paya 120% of Total fixed paya

Note
a Total fixed pay is defined as Fixed Pay plus Pension.

2018 Annual bonus performance measures
Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support 
the key strategic objectives of the Company. The performance measures and weightings are shown below.

Financial (60% weighting)

A performance target range 
has been set for each financial 
measure.

■■ Profit before tax excluding material items (40% weighting) 
Payout of this element will depend on the CET1 ratio during the performance year:

 – if CET1 goes below the expected end-state MDR hurdlea during the year, no part of this element will pay out
 – if CET1 goes below the end-state MDR hurdle + 150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, the 
Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of this element should pay out, based on 
the causes of the CET1 reduction

■■ Cost: income ratio excluding material items (20% weighting).
Strategic/Non-financial (20% 
weighting)

The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance Measurement Framework, 
with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress during the year against each category. Performance against 
the Strategic/Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the 
award that may vest between 0% and 20%. The measures are organised around three main categories: 
Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. 
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and 

Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients
■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee sustainable 

engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures
■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and 

external benchmarks and surveys. 
Personal (20% weighting) The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2018:

■■ deliver on 2018 financial goals such that we remain on track to achieve our returns targets
■■ seek opportunities for further cost savings and optimise the capital allocation within the Group
■■ complete the structural reform programme successfully, ensuring the UK ring-fenced bank is fully operational
■■ finalise the implementation plan for an effective Brexit outcome
■■ continue to drive strategic initiatives to enhance growth in shareholder value in the medium term
■■ manage risk and control effectively and make continued progress in resolving outstanding conduct matters.

In addition, individual personal objectives for 2018 are as follows:

Jes Staley:
■■ continue to strengthen the Bank's cyber readiness, operational and financial controls
■■ further improve customer and client satisfaction, with a particular focus on reducing the number of overall 

complaints
■■ as part of the ongoing succession planning for Group and Business Unit/Functional Executive Committees, 

continue the focus on improving the percentage of women in senior leader positions.

Tushar Morzaria:
■■ continue to strengthen team performance (especially following the creation of the Group Service Company), 

talent base and employee engagement in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury
■■ demonstrate effective management of external relationships and reputation.

Note
a The end-state MDR hurdle is currently expected to be 11.4%.

Detailed calibration of the Financial targets is commercially sensitive and it is not appropriate to disclose this information externally on a 
prospective basis. Disclosure of achievement will be made in the 2018 Annual Report subject to the targets no longer being commercially 
sensitive. The Committee may exercise its discretion to amend the formulaic outcome of assessment against the targets. Any exercise of 
discretion will be disclosed and explained.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 109

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Illustrative scenarios for executive Directors' remuneration
The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors' 2018 total remuneration in three scenarios: ‘Minimum' (i.e. Fixed Pay, 
Pension and benefits), ‘Maximum' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded) and ‘Mid-point' (i.e. Fixed 
Pay, Pension, benefits and 50% of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded). For the purposes of these charts, the value of benefits is based 
on an estimated annual value for 2018. The scenarios do not reflect share price movement between award and vesting.

A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance-related. It is also subject 
to deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.

Total remuneration opportunity:
Group Chief Executive (£m)

Minimum

42%

21% 21% 8% 20% 30%

40%26%6%14%14%

42% 16%

Total 8.30

Mid-point Total 5.55

Maximum

Total 2.81

Fixed cash Fixed shares BonusPension and Benefits LTIP

0 91.5 3 4.5 6 7.5

Total remuneration opportunity:
Group Finance Director (£m)

44%

22% 22% 6% 20% 30%

40%26%4%15%15%

44% 12%

Total 5.59

Total 3.74

Total 1.89Minimum

Mid-point

Maximum

Fixed cash Fixed shares BonusPension and Benefits LTIP

0 91.5 3 4.5 6 7.5

In the above illustrative scenarios, benefits include regular contractual benefits. Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas 
relocation of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.

Performance graph and table
The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2017 in terms of total shareholder 
return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index. The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of 
leading UK companies.

Total shareholder return – rebased to 2008

Year ended 31 December

210
193

178

183

120

174180

173
187184

182

154

183

143

140

127

243
217

Barclays PLC
FTSE 100 Index

2008

250

2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20172016

In addition, the table below provides a summary of the total remuneration of the relevant Group Chief Executive over the same period as the above 
graph. For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent with 
the ‘single figure' methodology.

The table also provides pay ratios of the Group Chief Executive's total remuneration to average remuneration for UK employees and the Group 
Executive Committee (Group ExCo) respectively.

Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Group Chief Executive
John 

Varley
John 

Varley
Bob 

Diamond
Bob 

Diamonda
Antony 
Jenkinsb

Antony 
Jenkins

Antony 
Jenkins

Antony 
Jenkinsb

John 
 McFarlanec

Jes 
Staleyd

Jes 
Staley

Jes 
Staley

Group Chief Executive 
single figure of total 
remuneration £000s 2,050 4,567 11,070e 1,892 529 1,602 5,467f 3,399 305 277 4,233 3,873
Annual bonus against 
maximum opportunity % 0% 100% 80% 0% 0% 0% 57% 48% N/A N/A 60% 48.5%
Long-term incentive 
vesting against maximum 
opportunity % 50% 16% N/Ag 0% N/Ag N/Ag 30% 39% N/Ag N/Ag N/Ag N/Ag

Ratio of single figure of 
total remuneration to:
UK employee median
UK employee mean

75 x
39 x

165 x
86 x

391 x
204 x

84 x
44 x

54 x
29 x

175 x
94 x

126 x
69 x

137 x
73 x

119 x
65 x

Ratio of single figure of 
total remuneration to:
Group ExCo median
Group ExCo mean

0.5 x 
0.3 x

1.0 x
0.5 x

2.4 x
1.3 x

1.2 x
0.8 x

0.4 x
0.4 x

2.2 x
2.0 x

1.6 x
1.3 x

1.1 x
1.1 x

1.0 x
0.7 x

Notes
a Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012.
b Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015.
c John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015. His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.  

He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
d Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015.
e This figure includes £5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report. Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be offset 

by a double tax treaty.
f Antony Jenkins' 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years.
g Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period.

110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
As we focus on our fair pay agenda, we are publishing our CEO pay ratios two years in advance of the disclosure becoming a statutory 
requirement. The pay ratios compare amounts disclosed in the single total figure table for the Group Chief Executive to (a) the median and mean 
annual total compensation of all UK employees, and (b) the median and mean annual total compensation of the Group ExCo. Where there was 
more than one Group Chief Executive in a given year (2012 and 2015), the pay ratio references the sum of the Group Chief Executive single total 
figures for that year.

It is worth noting that the ratios can be volatile. This is a result of a number of factors, including the tenure of our Group Chief Executives and the 
variation in LTIP payouts (in some years, the Group Chief Executive may not be a participant in a vesting LTIP). Our current Group Chief Executive's 
Fixed Pay is fixed for the duration of the current DRP, his 2017 bonus has reduced from 2016 and he has no LTIP vesting this year. This contrasts 
with the outcome for more junior populations where average fixed pay and average bonuses have increased between 2016 and 2017.

Percentage change in Group Chief Executive's remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive's salary, benefits and bonus between 2016 and 2017 compared 
with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.

Fixed Pay Benefits Annual bonus
Group Chief Executive 0% −63.3% −19.2%
Average based on UK employeesa 3.3% 0.6% 1.2%

Note
a Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.

We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative for pay structure comparisons.

Relative importance of spend on pay
A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders is shown below.

Group compensation costs (£m)

£7,123
£7,445

0 2,500 5,000 7,500

2017
2016

Dividends to shareholders (£m)

£509
£757

0 400 800200 600 1,000

2017
2016

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group
The table below shows the number of employees in the Barclays Group as at 31 December 2016 and 2017 in bands by reference to total 
remuneration. Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group

Remuneration band

Number of employees
2017 2016 2016

Constant 
currency Actual

£0 to £25,000 31,406 33,434 33,989
£25,001 to £50,000 24,280 23,081 22,927
£50,001 to £100,000 17,604 16,942 17,063
£100,001 to £250,000 9,818 9,453 9,098
£250,001 to £500,000 2,113 2,183 2,093
£500,001 to £1,000,000                         811 829 771
£1,000,001 to £2,000,000 262 273 264
£2,000,001 to £3,000,000 70 65 61
£3,000,001 to £4,000,000 21 26 21
£4,000,001 to £5,000,000 5 7 7
£5,000,001 to £6,000,000 7 9 9
Above £6,000,000 4 3 2

Barclays is a global business. Of those employees earning above £1m in total remuneration for 2017 in the table above, 61% are based in the US, 
32% in the UK, and 7% in the rest of the world.

The number of employees paid above £1m is down year on year on a constant currency basis (369 in 2017 vs. 383 in 2016).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 111

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Chairman and non-executive Directors
Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors 
of comparable major UK companies.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2017 fees (audited)
Fees Benefits Total

2017
£000

2016
£000

2017
£000

2016
£000

2017
£000

2016
£000

Chairman
John McFarlane 800 800 2 1 802 801
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 215 207 – – 215 207
Tim Breedon 225 220 – – 225 220
Sir Ian Cheshirea 360 – – – 360 –
Mary Francisb 135 29 – – 135 29
Crawford Gillies 195 195 – – 195 195
Sir Gerry Grimstonec 375 250 – – 375 250
Reuben Jeffery III 120 120 – – 120 120
Matthew Lesterd 45 – – – 45 –
Dambisa Moyo 135 135 – – 135 135
Diane de Saint Victore 38 118 – – 38 118
Diane Schuenemanfg 308 232 – – 308 232
Steve Thiekefh 87 221 – – 87 221
Wendy Lucas-Bulli – 64 – – – 64
Frits van Paasschenj – 35 – – – 35
Total 3,038 2,626 2 1 3,040 2,627

Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons. Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid 
by Barclays.

The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Notes
a Sir Ian Cheshire joined the Board as a non-executive Director and the Barclays UK Board as Chairman with effect from 3 April 2017. The 2017 figure includes fees of £300,000 for 

his role on the Barclays UK Board.
b Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016.
c Sir Gerry Grimstone joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2016 succeeding Sir Michael Rake as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman. He was 

appointed Chairman of the Barclays International Divisional Board on 1 August 2017. His Board Deputy Chairman fees were reduced to £150,000 with effect from this 
appointment. The 2017 figure includes fees of £167,000 for his role on the Barclays International Divisional Board.

d Matthew Lester joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017.
e Diane de Saint Victor retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017.
f Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke both served in 2016 on the US Governance Review Board and subsequently the board of the US intermediate holding company on its 

formation. The 2016 figures include fees of $138,000 and $150,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board and the board of the US intermediate holding 
company. In 2016, Steve Thieke also waived fees of $63,000. The 2017 figures include fees of $170,000 and $63,000 respectively for their role on the board of the US intermediate 
holding company. In 2017, Steve Thieke also waived fees of $34,000.

g Diane Schuneneman was appointed Chair of the Group Service Company Board on 1 September 2017. The 2017 figure includes fees of £41,000 for her role on the Group Service 
Company Board.

h Steve Thieke retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017.
i Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016. 2016 figures include fees received by Wendy Lucas-Bull for her role as Chairman of BAGL.
j Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2018
2018 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.

1 January 2018
£000

1 January 2017
£000

Chairmana 800 800
Deputy Chairmanb 250 250
Board memberc 80 80
Additional responsibilities
Senior Independent Director 30 30
Chairman of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 70 70
Chairman of Board Risk Committee 70 70
Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50
Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30
Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25
Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15

Notes
a The Chairman does not receive any other additional responsibility fees in addition to the Chairman fees. 
b The Deputy Chairman does not receive any additional fees in respect of being a member or Chairman of Board Committees or for his role as Senior Independent Director. The 

current Deputy Chairman's fees have been reduced to £150,000 with effect from his appointment as Chairman of the Barclays International Divisional Board.
c The basic Board member fee payable to non-executive Directors was last increased in May 2011.

112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Payments to former Directors
Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas
In 2017, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive Income 
Protection Plan (EIPP). Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors' Remuneration report (page 115 of the 2013 
Annual Report). Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2017.

Directors' shareholdings and share interests
Executive Directors' shareholdings and share interests (audited)
The chart below shows the value of Barclays' shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 19 February 2018 that count towards 
the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays' shares worth 200% of Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension). The current executive 
Directors have five years from their respective date of appointment to meet this requirement. At close of business on 19 February 2018, the market 
value of Barclays' ordinary shares was £2.01.

Jes Staley (£000)

£5,492
£9,132

Requirement
Actual

Tushar Morzaria (£000)

£3,700
£4,354

Requirement
Actual

Interests in Barclays PLC shares (audited)
The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject to 
either deferral terms and/or performance measures. The shares shown below that are subject to performance measures are the maximum 
number of shares that may be released.

Owned outright

Unvested Total as at
31 December 
2017 (or date 
of retirement 

from the Board, 
if earlier)

Total as at
19 February 

2018

Subject to
performance

 measures

Not subject to
performance 

measures
Executive Directors
Jes Staley 4,543,088 1,685,955 398,406 6,627,449 6,627,449
Tushar Morzaria 2,166,204 3,172,878 492,782 5,831,864 5,831,864
Chairman
John McFarlane 72,043 – – 72,043 72,043
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 73,517 – – 73,517 73,517
Tim Breedon 37,124 – – 37,124 37,124
Sir Ian Cheshirea 82,851 – – 82,851 82,851
Mary Francis 14,099 – – 14,099 14,099
Crawford Gillies 77,796 – – 77,796 77,796
Sir Gerry Grimstone 110,972 – – 110,972 110,972
Reuben Jeffery III 211,189 – – 211,189 211,189
Matthew Lesterb 10,000 – – 10,000 10,000
Dambisa Moyo 59,036 – – 59,036 59,036
Diane de Saint Victorc 42,823 – – 42,823 –
Diane Schueneman 27,255 – – 27,255 27,255
Steve Thieked 59,724 – – 59,724 –
Mike Turnere – – – – –

Notes 
a Sir Ian Cheshire joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 3 April 2017.
b Matthew Lester joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017.
c Diane de Saint Victor retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 10 May 2017.
d Steve Thieke retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 10 May 2017.
e  Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. 
 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 113

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Barclays Board Remuneration Committee
The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays' remuneration as described in more detail below.

Terms of Reference
The role of the Committee is to:
■■ set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group
■■ consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of (i) the Chairman, (ii) the executive Directors, (iii) members of the Barclays Group 

Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and (iv) all other Group employees whose 
total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time (currently £2m)

■■ exercise oversight for remuneration issues.

The Committee considers all aspects of the design and operation of remuneration policy to ensure a coherent approach is taken in respect of all 
employees. In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy assesses, among other things, the impact of pay 
arrangements on culture and all elements of risk management. The Committee also approves incentive pools for all major businesses and 
functions, reviews the design and provision of retirement benefits, and considers and approves measures designed to promote the alignment of 
the interests of shareholders and employees. The Committee and its members work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised 
to select and appoint its own advisers as required.

The Terms of Reference can be found at home.barclays/corporategovernance or from the Company Secretary on request.

Chairman and members
The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows:
■■ Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015
■■ Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012
■■ Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016
■■ Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.

All current members are considered independent by the Board.

Remuneration Committee attendance in 2017
Meetings attended/eligible to attend

Crawford Gillies 7/7
Tim Breedon 7/7
Mary Francis 7/7
Dambisa Moyo 7/7

The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review. The results of the January 2018 review were 
positive and concluded that the Committee is composed of the right level of experience and skills. Full details of the Board Effectiveness Review 
can be found on page 78.

Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Between February 2016 and September 2017, the Board Remuneration Committee did not engage an independent adviser. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) was appointed as the independent adviser to the Committee in October 2017. Prior to the appointment of KPMG 
as auditors on 31 March 2017 (and formally approved at the 2017 AGM in May 2017), PwC was the Group's external auditor. The Committee is 
satisfied that the advice provided by PwC to the Committee is independent and objective. PwC is a signatory to the voluntary UK Code of Conduct 
for executive remuneration consultants.

Throughout 2017, Willis Towers Watson continued to provide the Committee with market data on compensation when considering incentive levels 
and remuneration packages. 

PwC and Willis Towers Watson were paid £78,000 in aggregate (excluding VAT) in fees for their advice to the Committee in 2017 relating to the 
executive Directors (either exclusively or along with other employees within the Committee's Terms of Reference).

In addition to advising the Committee, PwC provided unrelated consulting advice to the Group in respect of corporate taxation, climate-related 
financial disclosures, data strategy, technology consulting and internal audit.

In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and 
the Group Reward and Performance Director. The Group Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and 
business financial performance and risk profile respectively.

No Barclays' employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration. No 
other advisers provided services to the Committee in the year.

114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Remuneration Committee activities in 2017
The following provides a summary of the Committee's activities during 2017 and at the January and February 2018 meetings at which 2017 
remuneration decisions were finalised. 

Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other mattersa

January 2017 ■■ 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments
■■ 2016 bonus proposals for senior executives
■■ Barclays deferral approach

February 2017 ■■ Approved executive Directors' and senior executives' 2017 
fixed pay

■■ Approved 2017 executive Directors' annual bonus performance 
measures

■■ Group fixed pay budgets for 2017
■■ Approved final 2016 incentive funding including risk 

adjustments
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior 

executives' 2016 bonuses and 2017–2019 LTIP awards for 
executive Directors

■■ Approved 2016 Remuneration report
■■ Review of Committee effectiveness

April 2017 ■■ Consideration of whistleblowing event

May 2017 ■■ Non-executive Directors' fees for 
subsidiary boards

July 2017 ■■ Incentive funding approach
■■ 2017 ex ante risk adjustment methodology

■■ Structural reform update
■■ Gender Pay Gap reporting
■■ Annual all employee share plans update
■■ Non-executive Directors' fees for  

subsidiary boards

October 2017 ■■ 2017 incentive funding projections including risk adjustments
■■ Annual review of Group Chairman's remuneration

■■ US benefits arrangements
■■ BAGL – approach for 2017 pay round

December 2017 ■■ Initial considerations on executive Directors' and senior 
executives' 2017 bonuses and 2018 fixed pay and bonus 
approach

■■ 2018 LTIP performance measures
■■ 2017 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments
■■ Approved changes to deferral plans

■■ Review of Committee activity, Terms of 
Reference and Control Framework

January 2018 ■■ 2017 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments
■■ 2017 bonus proposals for senior executives

■■ Non-executive Directors' fees for 
subsidiary boards

February 2018 ■■ Approved executive Directors' and senior executives'  
2018 fixed pay

■■ Approved 2018 executive Directors' annual bonus performance 
measures

■■ Group fixed pay budgets for 2018
■■ Approved final 2017 incentive funding including risk 

adjustments
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior 

executives' 2017 bonuses and 2018–2020 LTIP awards for 
executive Directors

■■ Approved 2017 Remuneration report
■■ Review of Committee effectiveness

Note
a The Committee is also provided with updates at each scheduled meeting on: regulatory and stakeholder matters, Finance and Risk, Remuneration Review Panel meetings, 

operation of the Committee's Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination, headcount and employee attrition, and extant LTIP performance.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 115

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt

<Page End><Page Start>
Governance: Remuneration report

Statement of shareholder voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration arrangements at the AGM held on 10 May 2017:

For
% of

votes cast
Number

Against
% of

votes cast
Number

Withheld
Number

Advisory vote on the 2016 Remuneration report 97.22%
11,879,285,601

2.78%
339,664,546 152,439,545

Binding vote on the Directors' remuneration policy 97.91%
12,062,616,141

2.09%
257,416,828 51,369,054

At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, shareholders of Barclays PLC voted 96.02% (10,364,453,159 votes) for the resolution in respect of a fixed to 
variable remuneration ratio of 1:2 for ‘Remuneration Code Staff ' (now known as MRTs). On 14 December 2017, the Board of Barclays PLC as 
shareholder of Barclays Bank PLC approved the resolution that Barclays Bank PLC and any of its current and future subsidiaries be authorised to 
apply a ratio of the fixed to variable components of total remuneration that exceeds 1:1, provided the ratio does not exceed 1:2.

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Contents

Risk management AnnualReport
Pillar 3 
Report

Overview of Barclays' approach to risk 
management. A detailed overview together 
with more specific information on policies 
that the Group determines to be of particular 
significance in the current operating 
environment can be found in Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2017 or at Barclays.com

■■ Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) 119 122
■■ Principal Risks 119 122
■■ Risk Appetite for the Principal Risks 119 122
■■ Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk 119 122
■■ Frameworks, Policies and Standards n/a 125
■■ Assurance n/a 125
■■ Effectiveness of risk management arrangements n/a 125
■■ Learning from our mistakes n/a 125
■■ Barclays' Risk Culture 120 125
■■ Group-wide risk management tools n/a 126
■■ Risk management in the setting of strategy n/a 128

Material existing and emerging risks
Insight into the level of risk across our 
business and portfolios, the material existing 
and emerging risks and uncertainties we face 
and the key areas of management focus.

■■ Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance 121 n/a
■■ Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting more than 

one Principal Risk 121 n/a
■■ Credit risk 123 n/a
■■ Market risk 123 n/a
■■ Treasury and capital risk 124 n/a
■■ Operational risk 124 n/a
■■ Model risk 125 n/a
■■ Conduct risk 125 n/a
■■ Reputation risk 126 n/a
■■ Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters 126 n/a

Principal Risk management
Barclays' approach to risk management 
for each Principal Risk with focus on 
organisation and structure and roles and 
responsibilities.

■■ Credit risk management 127 129
■■ Management of credit risk mitigation techniques and counterparty credit risk n/a 146
■■ Market risk management 129 150
■■ Management of securitisation exposures n/a 158
■■ Treasury and capital risk management 130 162
■■ Operational risk management 132 170
■■ Model risk management 134 174
■■ Conduct risk management 135 176
■■ Reputation risk management 136 178
■■ Legal risk management 137 180

Risk performance
Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm 
from the failure of clients, customers or 
counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully 
honour their obligations to the firm, including 
the whole and timely payment of principal, 
interest, collateral and other receivables.

■■ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 139 n/a
■■ Analysis of the balance sheet 139 n/a
■■ The Group's maximum exposure and collateral and other credit 

enhancements held 139 n/a
■■ The Group's approach to management and representation of credit quality 142 n/a
■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 144 n/a
■■ Loans and advances to customers and banks 147 n/a
■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 148 n/a
■■ Analysis of problem loans 151 n/a
■■ Impairment 156 n/a
■■ Analysis of debt securities 157 n/a
■■ Analysis of derivatives 157 n/a

Market risk: The risk of a loss arising from 
potential adverse changes in the value of the 
firm's assets and liabilities from fluctuation in 
market variables including, but not limited to, 
interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, 
commodity prices, credit spreads, implied 
volatilities and asset correlations.

■■ Market risk overview and summary of performance 160 93
■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 161 94
■■ Traded market risk review 162 95
■■ Review of regulatory measures 163 96

The management of risk is a critical underpinning to the execution of Barclays' strategy. 
The material risks and uncertainties the Group faces across its business and portfolios are 
key areas of management focus.

Barclays' risk disclosures are provided in the Annual Report and in the  
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 117

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Contents

Risk performance continued AnnualReport
Pillar 3 
Report

Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity: 
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its 
contractual or contingent obligations or that 
it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and 
liquidity to support its assets.

■■ Liquidity risk overview and summary of performance 166 n/a
■■ Liquidity risk stress testing 166 n/a
■■ Liquidity pool 168 n/a
■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 169 n/a
■■ Encumbrance 171 188
■■ Credit ratings 174 n/a
■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 175 n/a

Treasury and capital risk – Capital: The risk 
that the firm has an insufficient level or 
composition of capital to support its normal 
business activities and to meet its regulatory 
capital requirements under normal operating 
environments or stressed conditions (both 
actual and as defined for internal planning or 
regulatory testing purposes). This includes the 
risk from the firm's pension plans.

■■ Capital risk overview and summary of performance 179 n/a
■■ Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 180 8
■■ Capital resources 181 19
■■ Risk weighted assets 183 26
■■ Leverage ratios and exposures 184 31
■■ Foreign exchange risk 185 113
■■ Pension risk review 186 114
■■ Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities 187 34

Treasury and capital risk – Interest rate risk 
in the banking book: The risk that the firm 
is exposed to capital or income volatility 
because of a mismatch between the interest 
rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and 
liabilities.

■■ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and summary 
of performance 188 112

■■ Net interest income sensitivity 189 115
■■ Economic capital by business unit 189 116
■■ Analysis of equity sensitivity 190 116
■■ Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 190 117

Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm 
from inadequate or failed processes or 
systems, human factors or due to external 
events (for example, fraud) where the root 
cause is not due to credit or market risks.

■■ Operational risk overview and summary of performance 191 118
■■ Operational risk profile 192 120

Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse 
consequences from financial assessments or 
decisions based on incorrect or misused 
model outputs and reports.

■■ Model risk overview and summary of performance 193 n/a

Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to 
customers, clients, market integrity, 
competition or Barclays from the 
inappropriate supply of financial services, 
including instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct.

■■ Conduct risk overview and summary of performance 194 n/a

Reputation risk: The risk that an action, 
transaction, investment or event will reduce 
trust in the firm's integrity and competence 
by clients, counterparties, investors, 
regulators, employees or the public.

■■ Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 195 n/a

Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of 
penalties, damages or fines from the failure 
of the firm to meet its legal obligations 
including regulatory or contractual 
requirements.

■■ Legal risk overview and summary of performance 196 n/a

Supervision and regulation
The Group's operations, including its 
overseas branches, subsidiaries and 
associates, are subject to a significant 
body of rules and regulations.

■■ Supervision of the Group 197 n/a
■■ Global regulatory developments 198 n/a
■■ Financial regulatory framework 199 n/a
■■ Structural reform 204 n/a

Pillar 3 Report
Contains extensive information on risk as well 
as capital management.

■■ Summary of risk profile n/a 3
■■ Notes on basis of preparation n/a 5
■■ Scope of application of Basel rules n/a 6

Risk and capital position review: Provides a 
detailed breakdown of Barclays' regulatory 
capital adequacy and how this relates to 
Barclays' risk management.

■■ Group capital resources, requirements, leverage and liquidity n/a 17
■■ Analysis of credit risk n/a 36
■■ Analysis of counterparty credit risk n/a 78
■■ Analysis of market risk n/a 93
■■ Analysis of securitisation exposures n/a 99
■■ Analysis of treasury and capital risk n/a 112
■■ Analysis of operational risk n/a 118

118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk management
Barclays' risk management strategy

Risk review

Introduction
Barclays engages in activities which entail risk 
taking, every day, throughout its business. 
This section introduces these risks, and 
outlines key governance arrangements for 
managing them. These include roles and 
responsibilities, frameworks, policies and 
standards, assurance and lessons learned 
processes. The Group's approach to fostering 
a strong Risk Culture is also described.

Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk 
management by defining standards, objectives 
and responsibilities for all areas of Barclays. 
It supports the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
and Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) in 
embedding effective risk management 
and a strong Risk Culture.
The ERMF sets out:

■■ Principal Risks faced by the Group
■■ Risk Appetite requirements 
■■ Roles and responsibilities for risk 

management 
■■ Risk Committee structure.

Principal Risks
The ERMF identifies eight Principal Risks 
(see table below) and sets out associated 
responsibilities and risk management 
standards.

Risk Appetite for the 
Principal Risks
Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk 
which the Group is prepared to accept in the 
conduct of its activities. The Risk Appetite of 
the Group specifies the level of risk we are 
willing to take and why, to enable specific risk 
taking activities.
Risk Appetite is approved and disseminated 
across legal entities and businesses, including 
by use of Mandate and Scale limits to enable 
and control specific activities that have 
material concentration risk implications 
for the Group. 

Roles and responsibilities in 
the management of risk
The Three Lines of Defence
All colleagues are responsible for 
understanding and managing risks within 
the context of their individual roles and 
responsibilities, as set out in the ‘Three Lines 
of Defence'.

First Line of Defence
The First Line comprises all employees 
engaged in the revenue generating and client 
facing areas of the Group and all associated 
support functions, including Finance, 
Treasury, Human Resources and the Chief 
Operating Officer (COO) function. Employees 
in the First Line are responsible for:
■■ identifying all the risks and developing 

appropriate policies, standards and controls 
to govern their activities

■■ operating within any and all limits which 
the Risk and Compliance functions establish 
in connection with the Risk Appetite of 
the Group 

■■ escalating risk events to senior managers 
in Risk and Compliance.

Second Line of Defence
Employees of Risk and Compliance comprise 
the Second Line of Defence. The role of the 
Second Line is to establish the limits, rules and 
constraints under which First Line activities 
shall be performed, consistent with the Risk 
appetite of the Group, and to monitor the 
performance of the First Line against these 
limits and constraints.

Third Line of Defence
Employees of Internal Audit comprise 
the Third Line of Defence. They provide 
independent assurance to the Board and 
Executive Management over the effectiveness 
of governance, risk management and control 
over current, systemic and evolving risks.

The Legal function does not sit in any of the 
three lines, but supports them all. The Legal 
function is, however, subject to oversight from 
Risk and Compliance, with respect to 
operational and conduct risks.

Risk Committees
Business Risk Committees consider risk 
matters relevant to their business, and 
escalate as required to the Group Risk 
Committee (GRC), whose Chairman, in turn, 
escalates to Board Committees and the Board. 

There are three Board-level forums which 
oversee the application of the ERMF and 
review and monitor risk across the Group. 
These are: the Board Risk Committee, the 
Board Audit Committee, and the Board 
Reputation Committee. Additionally, the Board 
Remuneration Committee oversees pay 
practices focusing on aligning pay to 
sustainable performance. Finally, the main 
Board of Barclays receives regular information 
on the risk profile of the Group, and has 
ultimate responsibility for risk appetite and 
capital plans.

The Chairman of each Committee prepares 
a statement each year on the Committee's 
activities, which are included in this report on 
pages 45 to 79.

The Board 
One of the Board's (Board of Directors of 
Barclays Bank PLC) responsibilities is the 
approval of Risk Appetite (see page 126 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017). The Group 
CRO regularly presents a report to the Board 
summarising developments in the risk 
environment and performance trends in the 
key portfolios. The Board is also responsible 
for the ERMF. 

Non-Financial Principal RisksFinancial Principal Risks

Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm from the 
failure of clients, customers or counterparties, 
including sovereigns, to fully honour their 
obligations to the firm, including the whole and 
timely payment of principal, interest, collateral 
and other receivables.

Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential 
adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets 
and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables 
including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign 
exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit 
spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.

Treasury and capital risk: 

■ Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable 
to meet its contractual or contingent obligations 
or that it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and liquidity 
to support its assets.

■ Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an 
insufficient level or composition of capital to 
support its normal business activities and to meet 
its regulatory capital requirements under normal 
operating environments or stressed conditions 
(both actual and as defined for internal planning 
or regulatory testing purposes). This includes the 
risk from the firm's pension plans.

■ Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk 
that the firm is exposed to capital or income 
volatility because of a mismatch between the 
interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets 
and liabilities.

Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm 
from inadequate or failed processes or systems, 
human factors or due to external events 
(for example, fraud) where the root cause is 
not due to credit or market risks.

Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse 
consequences from financial assessments or 
decisions based on incorrect or misused model 
outputs and reports.

Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to customers, 
clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from 
the inappropriate supply of financial services, 
including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.

Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, 
investment or event will reduce trust in the firm's 
integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, 
investors, regulators, employees or the public.

Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of 
penalties, damages or fines from the failure of 
the firm to meet its legal obligations including 
regulatory or contractual requirements.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 119

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Risk management
Barclays' risk management strategy

The Board Risk Committee (BRC)
The BRC monitors the Group's risk profile 
against the agreed financial appetite. Where 
actual performance differs from expectations, 
the actions taken by management are 
reviewed to verify that the BRC is comfortable 
with them. After each meeting, the Chairman 
of the BRC prepares a report for the next 
meeting of the Board. All members are 
independent non-executive Directors. The 
Group Finance Director (GFD) and the 
Group CRO attend each meeting as a 
matter of course. 

The BRC also considers the Group's Risk 
Appetite statement for operational risk and 
evaluates the Group's operational risk profile 
and operational risk monitoring.

The BRC receives regular and comprehensive 
reports on risk methodologies, the 
effectiveness of the risk management 
framework, and the Group's risk profile, 
including the key issues affecting each 
business portfolio and forward risk trends. 
The Committee also commissions in-depth 
analyses of significant risk topics, which are 
presented by the Group CRO or senior risk 
managers in the businesses. 

The Board Audit Committee (BAC)
The BAC receives regular reports on the 
effectiveness of internal control systems, 
quarterly reports on material control issues 
of significance, and quarterly papers on 
accounting judgements (including 
impairment). It also receives a half-yearly 
review of the adequacy of impairment 
allowances, which it reviews relative to the 
risk inherent in the portfolios, the business 
environment, the Group's policies and 
methodologies. The Chairman of the BAC 
also sits on the BRC.

The Board Reputation Committee (RepCo)
The RepCo reviews management's 
recommendations on conduct and reputation 
risk and the effectiveness of the processes by 
which the Group identifies and manages these 
risks. It also reviews and monitors the 
effectiveness of Barclays' citizenship strategy, 
including the management of Barclays' 
economic, social and environmental 
contribution.

The Board Remuneration Committee 
(RemCo)
The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk 
management performance and risk profile, 
and proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk 
adjustments to variable remuneration. These 
inputs are considered in the setting of 
performance incentives.

Summaries of the relevant skills, experience 
and background of the Directors of the Board 
are presented in the Board of Directors section 
on pages 47 to 48. The terms of reference and 
additional details on membership and 
activities for each of the principal Board 
Committees are available from the Corporate 
Governance section of Barclays' website at: 
home.barclays/about-barclays/barclays-
corporate-governance.html

Barclays' Risk Culture
Risk Culture can be defined as ‘norms, 
attitudes and behaviours related to risk 
awareness, risk taking and risk management'. 
At Barclays this is reflected in how we identify, 
escalate and manage risk matters.

Our Code of Conduct – the Barclays Way
Globally, all colleagues must attest to the 
‘Barclays Way', our Code of Conduct, and all 
frameworks, policies and standards applicable 
to their roles. The Code of Conduct outlines 
the Purpose and Values which govern our 
Barclays Way of working across our business 
globally. It constitutes a reference point 
covering all aspects of colleagues' working 
relationships, specifically (but not exclusively) 
with other Barclays employees, customers and 
clients, governments and regulators, business 
partners, suppliers, competitors and the 
broader community.

Embedding of a values-based, conduct 
culture
The Group Executive Committee reconfirmed 
Conduct, Culture and Values as one of its 
execution priorities for 2017 with the aim of 
embedding the cultural measurement tool 
developed in 2016. The effectiveness of the 
Risk and Control environment, for which all 
colleagues are responsible, depends on the 
continued embedment of strong values. 
Please see the Board Reputation Committee 
report on pages 69 to 74 for further details.

Induction programmes support new 
colleagues in understanding how risk 
management culture and practices support 
how the Group does business and the link to 
Barclays' values. The Leadership Curriculum 
covers the building, sustaining and supporting 
of a trustworthy organisation and is offered to 
colleagues globally.

Other Risk Culture drivers
In addition to values and conduct, we consider 
the following determinants of Risk Culture:
■■ Management and governance: This means 

a consistent tone from the top and clear 
responsibilities to enable identification and 
challenge. 

■■ Motivation and incentives: The right 
behaviours are rewarded and modelled.

■■ Competence and effectiveness: This 
means that colleagues are enabled to 
identify, coordinate, escalate and address 
risk and control matters.

■■ Integrity: Colleagues are willing to meet 
their risk management responsibilities; 
colleagues escalate issues on a timely basis.

Group ExCo Group Risk Committee

Business Risk Committees

Board

Board Risk
Committee

Board Audit 
Committee

Board Reputation
Committee

Board Remuneration 
Committee

Remuneration 
Review Panel

Management Level
Committees/Forums

Business Level
Committees/Forums

Board Committees

120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Material existing and emerging 
risks to the Group's future 
performance
Material risks are those to which senior 
management pay particular attention and 
which could cause the delivery of the Group's 
strategy, results of operations, financial 
condition and/or prospects to differ materially 
from current expectations.

Emerging risks are those that have largely 
unknown components, the impact of which 
could crystallise over a longer time horizon. 
These could currently be considered immaterial 
but over time may individually or cumulatively 
affect the Group's strategy and cause the same 
outcomes as detailed above regarding material 
risks. In addition, certain factors beyond the 
Group's control, including escalation of 
terrorism or global conflicts, natural disasters 
and similar calamities, although not detailed 
below, could have a similar impact on 
the Group.

The risks described below are material risks that 
senior management has identified with respect 
to the Group, which is defined as Barclays PLC 
and its consolidated subsidiaries (including the 
Barclays Bank PLC Group). In connection with 
the planned implementation in the first half of 
2018 of ring-fencing certain of the Group's UK 
businesses, Barclays Bank PLC will transfer what 
are materially the assets and business of the 
Barclays UK division to another subsidiary 
of the Group, Barclays Bank UK PLC. Senior 
management expects that upon this transfer, 
the material risks with respect to the Barclays 
Bank PLC Group will be the same in all material 
respects as those risks with respect to the 
Group. For more information on certain risks 
senior management has identified with respect 
to the Barclays Bank PLC Group, see v) Certain 
potential consequences of ring-fencing to 
Barclays Bank PLC.

Material existing and emerging 
risks potentially impacting more 
than one Principal Risk
i) Business conditions, general economy and 
geopolitical issues
The Group offers a broad range of services, 
including to retail, institutional and government 
customers, in a large number of countries. 
The breadth of these operations means that 
deterioration in the economic environment, or 
an increase in political instability in countries 
where the Group is active, or in any systemically 
important economy, could adversely affect the 
Group's operating performance, financial 
condition and prospects.

Although economic activity continued to 
strengthen globally in 2017 a change in global 
economic conditions and the reversal of the 
improving trend may result in lower client 
activity of the Group and/or an increase of the 
Group's default rates, delinquencies, write-offs, 
and impairment charges, which in turn could 
adversely affect the Group's performance 
and prospects.

In several countries, reversals of capital inflows, 
as well as fiscal austerity, have already caused 
deterioration in political stability. This could be 
exacerbated by a renewed rise in asset price 
volatility or sustained pressure on government 
finances. In addition, geopolitical tensions in 
some areas of the world, such as the Korean 
Peninsula, the Middle East and Eastern Europe, 
are already acute and at risk of further 
deterioration, thus potentially increasing market 
uncertainties and adverse global economic and 
market conditions. 

In the US, there is uncertainty around the policy 
platform of the administration which took office 
in 2017. There is the possibility of significant 
changes in policy in sectors including trade, 
healthcare and commodities which may have 
an impact on associated Barclays portfolios. A 
significant proportion of the Group's portfolio 
is located in the US, including a major credit 
card portfolio and a range of corporate and 
investment banking exposures. Stress in the 
US economy, weakening GDP, an unexpected 
rise in unemployment and/or an increase in 
interest rates could lead to increased levels 
of impairment. 

Most major central banks have indicated that 
they expect prevailing loose monetary policies 
to tighten. Should ‘normalisation' paths diverge 
substantially, flows of capital between countries 
could alter significantly, placing segments with 
sizeable foreign currency liabilities, in particular 
emerging markets, under pressure. In addition, 
possible divergence of monetary policies 
between major advanced economies risks 
triggering further financial market volatility 
(see also ii) Interest rate rises adversely 
impacting credit conditions, below). 

In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the 
EU (see iii) Process of UK withdrawal from 
the European Union, below) has given rise 
to political uncertainty with attendant 
consequences for investment and market 
confidence. The initial impact was a 
depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher costs 
for companies exposed to imports and a more 
favourable environment for exporters. Rising 
domestic costs resulting from higher import 
prices may impact household incomes and the 
affordability of consumer loans and mortgages. 
In turn, this may affect businesses dependent 
on consumers for revenue. There has also been 
a reduction in activity in both commercial and 
residential real estate markets which has the 
potential to impact value of real estate assets 
and adversely affect mortgage assets.

Sentiment towards emerging markets as a 
whole continues to be driven in large part by 
developments in China, where there is some 
concern around the ability of authorities to 
manage growth while transitioning from 
manufacturing towards services. Although the 
Chinese government's efforts to stably increase 
the weight of domestic demand have had some 
success, the pace of credit growth remains a 
concern, given the high level of leverage and 
despite regulatory action. A stronger than 
expected slowdown could result if authorities 
fail to appropriately manage the end of the 
investment and credit-led boom. 

Deterioration in emerging markets could affect 
the Group if it results in higher impairment 
charges for the Group via sovereign or 
counterparty defaults. 

More broadly, a deterioration of conditions in 
the key markets where the Group operates 
could affect performance in a number of ways 
including, for example: (i) deteriorating business, 
consumer or investor confidence leading to 
reduced levels of client activity, including 
demand for borrowing from creditworthy 
customers, or indirectly, a material adverse 
impact on GDP growth in significant markets 
and therefore on Group performance; (ii) higher 
levels of default rates and impairment; (iii) mark 
to market losses in trading portfolios resulting 
from changes in factors such as credit ratings, 
share prices and solvency of counterparties; (iv) 
reduced ability to obtain capital from other 
financial institutions for the Group operations; 
and (v) lower levels of fixed asset investment 
and productivity growth overall.

ii) Interest rate rises adversely impacting 
credit conditions
To the extent that central banks increase 
interest rates particularly in the Group's main 
markets, in the UK and the US, there could be 
an impact on consumer debt affordability and 
corporate profitability. 

While interest rate rises could positively impact 
the Group's profitability, as retail and corporate 
business income may increase due to margin 
de-compression, future interest rate increases, 
if larger or more frequent than expectations, 
could cause stress in the loan portfolio and 
underwriting activity of the Group. Higher 
credit losses driving an increased impairment 
allowance would most notably impact 
retail unsecured portfolios and wholesale 
non-investment grade lending.

Interest rates rising faster than expected could 
also have an adverse impact on the value of 
high quality liquid assets which are part of the 
Group Treasury function's investment activity 
that could consequently create more volatility 
through the Group's available for sale reserves 
than expected.

iii) Process of UK withdrawal from the 
European Union
The uncertainty and increased market volatility 
following the UK's decision to leave the EU in 
2019 is likely to continue until the exact nature 
of the future trading relationship with the EU 
becomes clear. The potential risks associated 
with an exit from the EU include:
■■ Increased market risk with the impact on the 

value of trading book positions, mainly in 
Barclays International, expected to be driven 
predominantly by currency and interest rate 
volatility.

■■ Potential for credit spread widening for UK 
institutions which could lead to reduced 
investor appetite for Barclays' debt securities, 
which could negatively impact the cost of 
and/or access to funding. Potential for 
continued market and interest rate volatility 
could affect the interest rate risk underlying, 
and potentially affect the value of the assets 

Material existing and emerging risks
Risk review

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 121

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Material existing and emerging risks

in the banking book, as well as securities held 
by Barclays for liquidity purposes.

■■ Changes in the long-term outlook for UK 
interest rates which may adversely affect IAS 
19 pension liabilities and the market value of 
equity investments funding those liabilities.

■■ Increased risk of a UK recession with lower 
growth, higher unemployment and falling 
UK house prices. This would likely negatively 
impact a number of Barclays' portfolios, 
particularly in Barclays UK, notably: higher 
Loan to Value mortgages, UK unsecured 
lending including credit cards and 
Commercial Real Estate exposures.

■■ Changes to current EU ‘Passporting' rights 
which will likely require adjustments to the 
current model for the Group's cross-border 
banking operation which could increase 
operational complexity and/or costs.

■■ The ability to attract, or prevent the departure 
of, qualified and skilled employees may be 
impacted by the UK's future approach to the 
EU freedom of movement and immigration 
from the EU countries and this may impact 
Barclays' access to the EU talent pool.

■■ The legal framework within which Barclays 
operates could change and become more 
uncertain as the UK takes steps to replace or 
repeal certain laws currently in force, which 
are based on EU legislation and regulation 
(including EU regulation of the banking 
sector). Certainty of existing contracts, 
enforceability of legal obligations and 
uncertainty around the outcome of disputes 
may be affected until the impacts of the loss 
of the current jurisdictional arrangements 
between UK and EU courts and the universal 
enforceability of judgements across the EU 
(including the status of existing EU case law) 
are fully known.

iv) Regulatory change agenda and impact on 
business model
The Group remains subject to ongoing 
significant levels of regulatory change and 
scrutiny in many of the countries in which it 
operates (including, in particular, the UK and the 
US). As a result, regulatory risk will remain a 
focus for senior management and consume 
significant levels of business resources. 
Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory 
approach and enhanced requirements together 
with the uncertainty (particularly in light of the 
UK's decision to withdraw from the EU) and 
potential lack of international regulatory 
co-ordination as enhanced supervisory 
standards are developed and implemented may 
adversely affect the Group's business, capital 
and risk management strategies and/or may 
result in the Group deciding to modify its legal 
entity structure, capital and funding structures 
and business mix, or to exit certain business 
activities altogether or not to expand in areas 
despite otherwise attractive potential.

The most significant of the regulatory reforms 
affecting the Group in 2018 is the creation of 
the ring-fenced bank under the Bank's 
structural reform programme (for more on 
structural reform, see Supervision and 
Regulation on page 204).

The implementation of these changes involves 
a number of risks which include:
■■ The Group is restructuring its intra-group 

and external capital, funding and liquidity 
arrangements to meet regulatory 
requirements and support business needs. 
The changes will impact the sources of 
funding available to the different entities 
including their respective ability to access the 
capital markets. These changes may affect 
funding costs.

■■ The changes to the Group structure may 
negatively impact the assessment made by 
credit rating agencies and creditors over time. 
The risk profile and key risk drivers of the 
ring-fenced bank and the non ring-fenced 
bank will be specific to the activities and risk 
profile of each entity. As a result, different 
Group entities such as Barclays Bank PLC may 
also be assessed differently in future which 
could result in differences in credit ratings. 
Changes to the credit assessment at the 
Group or individual entity level, including the 
potential for ratings downgrades and ratings 
differences across entities, could impact 
access and cost of certain sources of funding.

■■ Implementation of ring-fencing introduces 
a number of execution risks. Technology 
change could result in outages or operational 
errors. Legal challenge to the ring-fence 
transfer scheme may delay the transfer of 
assets and liabilities to the ring-fenced bank. 
Delayed delivery could increase reputational 
risk or result in regulatory non-compliance.

■■ There is a risk that Barclays does not meet 
regulatory requirements across the new 
structure. Failure to meet these requirements 
may have an adverse impact on the Group's 
profitability, operating flexibility, flexibility of 
deployment of capital and funding, return on 
equity, ability to pay dividends, credit ratings, 
and/or financial condition.

In addition to structural reform there are 
several other significant pieces of legislation/
areas of focus which will require significant 
management attention, cost and resource:
■■ Changes in prudential requirements, 

including the proposals for amendment of 
the CRD IV and the BRRD (as part of the 
EU's risk reduction measures package) may 
impact minimum requirements for own funds 
and eligible liabilities (MREL) (including 
requirements for internal MREL), leverage, 
liquidity or funding requirements, applicable 
buffers and/or add-ons to such minimum 
requirements and risk weighted assets 
calculation methodologies all as may be set 
by international, EU or national authorities 
from time to time. Such or similar changes 
to prudential requirements or additional 
supervisory and prudential expectations, 
either individually or in aggregate, may result 
in, among other things, a need for further 
management actions to meet the changed 
requirements, such as: increasing capital, 
MREL or liquidity resources, reducing 
leverage and risk weighted assets; restricting 
distributions on capital instruments; 
modifying the terms of outstanding capital 
instruments; modifying legal entity structure 

(including with regard to issuance and 
deployment of capital, MREL and funding for 
the Group); changing the Group's business 
mix or exiting other businesses; and/or 
undertaking other actions to strengthen the 
Group's position. (See Treasury and capital 
risk on pages 164 to 190 and Supervision and 
regulation on pages 197 to 204 for more 
information). 

■■ The derivatives market has been the subject 
of particular focus for regulators in recent 
years across the G20 countries and beyond, 
with regulations introduced which require the 
reporting and clearing of standardised over 
the counter (OTC) derivatives and the 
mandatory margining of non-cleared OTC 
derivatives. Reforms in this area are ongoing 
with further requirements expected to be 
implemented in the course of 2018. More 
broadly, the recast Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive in Europe (MiFID II), 
which came into force in January 2018, has 
fundamentally changed the European 
regulatory framework, and entails significant 
operational changes for market participants 
in a wide range of financial instruments as 
well as changes in market structures and 
practices. In addition, the EU Benchmarks 
Regulation which also came into force in 
January 2018 regulates the administration 
and use of benchmarks in the EU. 
Compliance with this evolving regulatory 
framework entails significant costs for market 
participants and is having a significant impact 
on certain markets in which the Group, 
notably Barclays International, operates. 
Other regulations applicable to swap dealers, 
including those promulgated by the US 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
have imposed significant costs on the 
Group's derivatives business. These and any 
future requirements, including the US SEC's 
regulations relating to security-based swaps 
and the possibility of overlapping and/or 
contradictory requirements imposed on 
derivative transactions by regulators in 
different jurisdictions, are expected to 
continue to impact such business.

■■ The Group and certain of its members are 
subject to supervisory stress testing exercises 
in a number of jurisdictions. These exercises 
currently include the programmes of the 
BoE, the EBA, the FDIC and the FRB. These 
exercises are designed to assess the resilience 
of banks to adverse economic or financial 
developments and enforce robust, forward-
looking capital and liquidity management 
processes that account for the risks 
associated with their business profile. 
Assessment by regulators is on both a 
quantitative and qualitative basis, the latter 
focusing on the Group's or certain of its 
members' business model, data provision, 
stress testing capability and internal 
management processes and controls. The 
stress testing requirements to which the 
Group and its members are subject are 
becoming increasingly stringent. Failure to 
meet requirements of regulatory stress tests, 
or the failure by regulators to approve the 
stress test results and capital plans of the 

122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Group, could result in the Group being 
required to enhance its capital position, limit 
capital distributions or position additional 
capital in specific subsidiaries. For more 
information on stress testing, please see 
Supervision and regulation on page 200.

■■ The introduction and implementation of 
both PSD2 and the Open API standards and 
data sharing remedy imposed by the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority following 
its Retail Banking Market Investigation Order 
(together ‘Open Banking') from January 2018 
is anticipated to transform the traditional UK 
banking model and conventional relationship 
between a customer and their bank. It will do 
this by providing customers with the ability to 
share their transactional data with authorised 
third party service providers either for 
aggregation or payment services. It is 
anticipated that these aggregation or 
payment services will be offered by third 
parties to Barclays' customers. Members of 
the Barclays Group will be able to offer these 
same services to customers of other banks. 
A failure to comply with Open Banking 
requirements could expose Barclays to 
regulatory sanction, potential financial 
loss and reputational detriment. While Open 
Banking will affect the Group as a whole, the 
impact is likely to be particularly relevant for 
Barclays UK.

v) Certain potential consequences of 
ring-fencing to Barclays Bank PLC
In connection with the planned implementation 
in the first half of 2018 of ring-fencing certain of 
the Group's UK businesses, Barclays Bank PLC 
will transfer what are materially the assets and 
business of the Barclays UK division to another 
subsidiary of the Group, Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Senior management expects that upon this 
transfer, the material risks with respect to the 
Barclays Bank PLC Group will be the same in all 
material respects as those risks with respect to 
the Group. However, senior management has 
identified certain potential differences in risks 
with respect to the Barclays Bank PLC Group as 
compared to risks to the Group.

The transfer of the assets and liabilities of the 
Barclays UK division from Barclays Bank PLC 
will mean that the Barclays Bank PLC Group 
will be less diversified than the Group as a 
whole. Barclays Bank PLC will not be the parent 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC and thus will not have 
recourse to the assets of Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Relative to the Group, the Barclays Bank PLC 
Group will be, among other things:
■■ more focused on businesses outside the UK, 

particularly in the US, and thus more exposed 
to the US economy and more affected by 
movements in the US Dollar (and other 
non-Sterling currencies) relative to Sterling, 
with a relatively larger portion of its business 
exposed to US regulation

■■ more focused on wholesale businesses, such 
as corporate and investment banking and 
capital markets, which expose Barclays Bank 
PLC Group to a broader range of market 
conditions and to counterparty and 
operational risks and thus the financial 
performance of Barclays Bank PLC may be 

subject to greater fluctuations relative to that 
of the Group as a whole or that of the 
ring-fenced bank

■■ more dependent on wholesale funding 
sources, as the UK retail deposit base will be 
transferred to the ring-fenced bank. The UK 
retail mortgage assets will also be transferred 
to the ring-fenced bank, which reduces 
Barclays Bank PLC's access to funding 
sources reliant on residential mortgage 
collateral. The Barclays Bank PLC Group may 
therefore experience more difficult financing 
conditions and/or higher costs of funding 
including in situations of stress. As a result of 
the implementation of ring-fencing, different 
Group entities, such as Barclays Bank PLC, 
may be assessed differently by credit rating 
agencies, which may result in different, and 
possibly more negative, assessments of 
Barclays Bank PLC's credit and thus in lower 
credit ratings than the credit ratings of the 
Group, which in turn could adversely affect 
the sources and costs of funding for Barclays 
Bank PLC

■■ potentially subject to different regulatory 
obligations, including different liquidity 
requirements and capital buffers.

As a result of any or all of the foregoing, 
implementation of ring-fencing may adversely 
affect the market value and/or liquidity of 
securities issued by Barclays Bank PLC.

Material existing and emerging 
risks impacting individual 
Principal Risks 
i) Credit risk
a) Impairment
The introduction of the impairment 
requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, 
implemented on 1 January 2018, results in 
higher impairment loss allowances that are 
recognised earlier, on a more forward looking 
basis and on a broader scope of financial 
instruments than is the case under IAS 39 and, 
as a result, will have a material impact on the 
Group's financial condition. Measurement 
involves increased complex judgement and 
impairment charges will tend to be more 
volatile. Unsecured products with longer 
expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, 
are the most impacted. The capital treatment 
on the increased reserves has the potential to 
adversely impact regulatory capital ratios. In 
addition, the move from incurred to expected 
credit losses has the potential to impact 
the Group's performance under stressed 
economic conditions or regulatory stress tests. 
For more information please refer to Note 1 on 
pages 241 to 246. 

b) Specific sectors
The Group is subject to risks arising from 
changes in credit quality and recovery rate of 
loans and advances due from borrowers and 
counterparties in a specific portfolio. Any 
deterioration in credit quality could lead to 
lower recoverability and higher impairment 
in a specific sector. The following are areas of 
uncertainties to the Group's portfolio which 
could have a material impact on performance.

■■ UK real estate market. With UK property 
representing a significant portion of the 
overall UK Corporate and Retail credit 
exposure, the Group is at risk from a fall in 
property prices in both the residential and 
commercial sectors in the UK.
Strong house price growth in London and 
the south-east of the UK, fuelled by foreign 
investment, strong buy-to-let (BTL) demand 
and subdued housing supply, has resulted 
in affordability metrics becoming stretched. 
Average house prices as at the end of 2017 
were more than 5.6 times average earnings.

■■ Large single name losses. The Group has 
large individual exposures to single name 
counterparties both in its lending activities 
and in its financial services and trading 
activities, including transactions in derivatives 
and transactions with brokers, central 
clearing houses, dealers, other banks, mutual 
and hedge funds and other institutional 
clients. The default of such counterparties 
could have a significant impact on the 
carrying value of these assets. In addition, 
where such counterparty risk has been 
mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk may 
remain high if the collateral held cannot be 
realised, or has to be liquidated at prices 
which are insufficient to recover the full 
amount of the loan or derivative exposure. 
Any such defaults could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group's results due to, 
for example, increased credit losses and 
higher impairment charges.

■■ Leverage finance underwriting. The Group 
takes on sub-investment grade underwriting 
exposure, including single name risk, 
particularly in the US and Europe. The 
Group is exposed to credit events and 
market volatility during the underwriting 
period. Any adverse events during this period 
may potentially result in loss for the Group, 
mainly through Barclays International, or 
an increased capital requirement should 
there be a need to hold the exposure for 
an extended period.

ii) Market risk
Market volatility
Elevated market volatility, which can be 
triggered and/or aggravated by disappointment 
in economic data, divergent monetary policies, 
political uncertainty or conflicts, would likely 
entail a significant deflation of assets which in 
turn may put under strain counterparties and 
have knock-on effects on the bank.

In addition, the Group's trading business is 
generally exposed to a prolonged period of 
elevated asset price volatility, particularly if it 
negatively affects the depth of marketplace 
liquidity. Such a scenario could impact the 
Group's ability to execute client trades and may 
also result in lower client flow-driven income 
and/or market-based losses on its existing 
portfolio of market risks. These can include 
having to absorb higher hedging costs from 
rebalancing risks that need to be managed 
dynamically as market levels and their 
associated volatilities change.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 123

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Material existing and emerging risks

iii) Treasury and capital risk
The Group may not be able to achieve its 
business plans due to, among other things: 
a) being unable to maintain appropriate capital 
ratios; b) being unable to meet its obligations 
as they fall due; c) rating agency downgrades; 
d) adverse changes in foreign exchange rates 
on capital ratios; e) adverse movements in the 
pension fund; f) non-traded market risk/
interest rate risk in the banking book.

a) Inability to maintain prudential ratios 
and other regulatory requirements
Inability to maintain appropriate prudential 
ratios could lead to: an inability to support 
business activity; a failure to meet regulatory 
capital requirements including any additional 
capital add-ons or the requirements set for 
regulatory stress tests; increased cost of 
funding due to deterioration in investor appetite 
or credit ratings; restrictions on distributions 
including the ability to meet dividend targets; 
and/or the need to take additional measures 
to strengthen the Group's capital or leverage 
position.

b) Inability to manage liquidity and funding 
risk effectively
Inability to manage liquidity and funding risk 
effectively may result in the Group either not 
having sufficient financial resources to meet 
its payment obligations as they fall due or, 
although solvent, only being able to meet these 
obligations at excessive cost. This could cause 
the Group to fail to meet regulatory liquidity 
standards, be unable to support day-to-day 
banking activities (including meeting deposit 
withdrawals or funding new loans) or no longer 
be a going concern. 

The stability of the Group's current funding 
profile, in particular that part which is based 
on accounts and savings deposits payable on 
demand or at short notice, could be affected by 
the Group failing to preserve the current level of 
customer and investor confidence. The Group 
also regularly accesses the capital markets 
to provide long-term funding to support its 
operations. Several factors, including adverse 
macroeconomic conditions, adverse outcomes 
in legal, regulatory or conduct matters and loss 
of confidence by investors, counterparties  
and/or customers in the Group, can affect 
the ability of the Group to access the capital 
markets and/or the cost and other terms 
upon which the Group is able to obtain 
market funding. 

c) Credit rating changes and the impact on 
funding costs
Any potential or actual credit rating agency 
downgrades could significantly increase the 
Group's borrowing costs, credit spreads and 
materially adversely affect the Group's interest 
margins and liquidity position which may, as 
a result, significantly diverge from current 
expectations. Such adverse changes would 
also have a negative impact on the Group's 
overall performance.

d) Adverse changes in FX rates impacting 
capital ratios
The Group has capital resources, risk weighted 
assets and leverage exposures denominated in 
foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates may adversely impact the 
Sterling equivalent value of these items. As a 
result, the Group's regulatory capital ratios are 
sensitive to foreign currency movements, and 
any failure to appropriately manage the Group's 
balance sheet to take account of foreign 
currency movements could result in an adverse 
impact on regulatory capital and leverage ratios.

e) Adverse movements in the pension fund
Adverse movements in pension assets and 
liabilities for defined benefit pension schemes 
could result in a pension deficit which, 
depending on the specific circumstance, 
may require the Group to make substantial 
additional contributions to its pension plans. 
The liabilities discount rate is a key driver and, 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IAS 19), is derived from 
the yields of high quality corporate bonds 
(deemed to be those with AA ratings) and 
consequently includes exposure to both 
UK sovereign gilt yields and corporate 
credit spreads.

Therefore, the valuation of the Group's defined 
benefits schemes would be adversely affected 
by a prolonged fall in the discount rate due 
to a persistent low rate and/or credit spread 
environment. Inflation is another significant risk 
driver to the pension fund, as the liabilities are 
adversely impacted by an increase in long-term 
inflation expectations.

f) Non-traded market risk/interest rate risk 
in the banking book
A liquidity buffer investment return shortfall 
could increase the Bank's cost of funds and 
impact the capital ratios. The Bank's structural 
hedge programmes for interest rate risk in 
the banking book rely heavily on behavioural 
assumptions, as a result, the success of the 
hedging strategy is not guaranteed. A potential 
mismatch in the balance or duration of the 
hedge assumptions could lead to earnings 
deterioration.

iv) Operational risk
a) Cyber threat
The frequency of cyber attacks continues to 
grow on an annual basis and is a global threat 
which is inherent across all industries, including 
the financial sector. As the financial sector 
remains a primary target for cyber criminals, 
2017 saw a number of highly publicised attacks 
involving ransomware, theft of intellectual 
property, customer data and service 
unavailability across a wide range of 
organisations.

The cyber threat increases the inherent risk to 
the availability of the Group's services and to the 
Group's data (whether it is held by the Group 
or in its supply chain), to the integrity of 
financial transactions of the Group, its clients, 
counterparties and customers. Failure to 

adequately manage this threat and to 
continually evolve enterprise security and 
provide an active cyber security response 
capability could result in increased fraud losses, 
inability to perform critical economic functions, 
customer detriment, potential regulatory 
censure and penalty, legal liability, reduction 
in shareholder value and reputational damage.

b) Service resilience
Loss of, or disruption to, the Group's business 
processing, whether arising through impacts 
on technology systems, real estate services, 
personnel availability or the support of major 
suppliers, represents a material inherent risk 
theme for the Group.

Building resilience into business processes 
and into the services of technology, real estate 
and suppliers on which those processes depend 
can reduce disruption to the Group's business 
activities or avoid it altogether. Failure to do so 
may result in significant customer detriment, 
cost to reimburse losses incurred by our 
customers, potential regulatory censure or 
penalty, and reputational damage.

c) Outsourcing
The Group depends on suppliers for the 
provision of many of its services and the 
development of future technology driven 
product propositions, though the Group 
continues to be accountable for risk arising 
from the actions of such suppliers. Failure to 
monitor and control the Group's suppliers 
could potentially lead to client information, or 
critical infrastructures and services, not being 
adequately protected or available when 
required.

The dependency on suppliers and 
sub-contracting of outsourced services 
introduces concentration risk where the failure 
of specific suppliers could have an impact on 
our ability to continue to provide services that 
are material to the Group, especially for those 
individual businesses within the Group to which 
many services are provided centrally by the 
newly established Group Service Company.

Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk 
through control environments which remain 
robust to ever changing threats and challenges 
could result in increased losses, inability to 
perform critical economic functions, customer 
detriment, potential regulatory censure and 
penalty, legal liability and reputational damage.

d) Operational precision and payments
The risk of material errors in operational 
processes, including payments, are exacerbated 
during the present period of significant levels of 
structural and regulatory change, the evolving 
technology landscape, and a transition to digital 
channel capabilities.

Material operational or payment errors could 
disadvantage the Group's customers, clients or 
counterparties and could result in regulatory 
censure and penalties, legal liability, reputational 
damage and financial loss by the bank.

124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
e) New and emergent technology
Technological advancements present 
opportunities to develop new and innovative 
ways of doing business across the Group, with 
new solutions being developed both in-house 
and in association with third party companies. 
Introducing new forms of technology has the 
potential to increase inherent risk.

Failure to closely monitor risk exposure could 
lead to customer detriment, loss of business, 
regulatory censure, missed business 
opportunity and reputational damage.

f) Fraud
Fraud is a constantly evolving risk to the Group. 
This is exacerbated during periods of significant 
change, including the digitisation of products, 
which carry higher levels of inherent risk. As the 
Group continues to invest in new and upgraded 
fraud systems, criminals continually adapt 
and become ever more sophisticated in their 
approach. Risks from social engineering and 
attempts to trick customers into authorising 
payments also continue to grow and increasing 
regulatory focus is placing more responsibility 
on the industry to protect consumers.

In addition, internal fraud arising from areas 
such as failure of the Group's trading controls 
could result in high profile material losses 
together with regulatory censure/penalties and 
significant reputational damage.

g) Ability to hire and retain appropriately 
qualified employees
The Group has resource requirements to 
support existing revenue streams, moves into 
new business models and to deliver complex 
multi-year regulatory commitments and 
mandatory change. These commitments 
require diversified and specialist skilled 
colleagues and Barclays' ability to attract, 
develop and retain such a diverse mix of talent 
is key to the delivery of its core business activity 
and strategy. This is impacted by a range of 
external and internal factors. External regulation 
such as the introduction of the Individual 
Accountability Regime and the required deferral 
and clawback provisions of our compensation 
arrangements may make Barclays a less 
attractive proposition relative to both our 
international competitors and other industries. 
Similarly, the impact of exit of the UK from the 
EU, in March 2019 (see Process of UK 
withdrawal from the European Union on pages 
121 and 122), could potentially have a more 
immediate impact on our ability to hire and 
retain key employees.

Failure to attract or prevent the departure of 
appropriately qualified and skilled employees 
who are dedicated to overseeing and managing 
current and future regulatory standards and 
expectations, or who have the necessary 
diversified skills required to deliver the Group 
strategy, could negatively impact our financial 
performance, control environment and level 
of employee engagement. Additionally, this 
may result in disruption to service which 
could in turn lead to disenfranchising certain 
customer groups, customer detriment 
and reputational damage.

h) Tax risk
The Group is required to comply with the 
domestic and international tax laws and 
practice of all countries in which it has business 
operations. There is a risk that the Group could 
suffer losses due to additional tax charges, 
other financial costs or reputational damage as 
a result of failing to comply with such laws and 
practice, or by failing to manage its tax affairs in 
an appropriate manner, with much of this risk 
attributable to the international structure of 
the Group. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has 
introduced substantial changes to the US tax 
system, including the introduction of a new 
tax, the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax. These 
changes have increased the Group's tax 
compliance obligations and require a number 
of system and process changes which introduce 
additional operational risk. In addition, 
increasing customer tax reporting requirements 
around the world and the digitisation of the 
administration of tax has potential to increase 
the Group's tax compliance burden further.

i) Critical accounting estimates and 
judgements
The preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with IFRS requires the use of 
estimates. It also requires management to 
exercise judgement in applying relevant 
accounting policies. The key areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or 
areas where assumptions are significant to the 
consolidated and individual financial statements 
include credit impairment charges for amortised 
cost assets, taxes, fair value of financial 
instruments,  pensions and post-retirement 
benefits, and provisions including conduct and 
legal, competition and regulatory matters. 
There is a risk that if the judgement exercised, 
or the estimates or assumptions used, 
subsequently turn out to be incorrect, this could 
result in significant loss to the Group, beyond 
what was anticipated or provided for.

The further development of standards and 
interpretations under IFRS could also 
significantly impact the financial results, 
condition and prospects of the Group.

j) Data management and information 
protection 
The Group holds and processes large volumes 
of data, including personally identifiable 
information, intellectual property, and financial 
data. Failure to accurately collect and maintain 
this data, protect it from breaches of 
confidentiality and interference with its 
availability exposes the Bank to the risk of loss 
or unavailability of data (including customer 
data covered under vi), c) Data protection and 
privacy, below), data integrity issues and could 
result in regulatory censure, legal liability and 
reputational damage.

v) Model risk 
Enhanced model risk management 
requirements 
Barclays relies on models to support a broad 
range of business and risk management 
activities, including informing business 
decisions and strategies, measuring and 

limiting risk, valuing exposures (including 
the calculation of impairment), conducting 
stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, 
supporting new business acceptance and  
risk/reward evaluation, managing client assets, 
and meeting reporting requirements.

Models are, by their nature, imperfect and 
incomplete representations of reality because 
they rely on assumptions and inputs, and so 
they may be subject to errors affecting the 
accuracy of their outputs. For instance, the 
quality of the data used in models across 
Barclays has a material impact on the 
accuracy and completeness of our risk 
and financial metrics.

Models may also be misused. Model errors 
or misuse may result in the Group making 
inappropriate business decisions and being 
subject to financial loss, regulatory risk, 
reputational risk and/or inadequate 
capital reporting. 

vi) Conduct risk
There is the risk of detriment to customers, 
clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays 
from the inappropriate supply of financial 
services, including instances of wilful or 
negligent misconduct. This risk could manifest 
itself in a variety of ways:

a) Product governance and life cycle
Ineffective product governance, including 
design, approval and review of products, 
inappropriate controls over internal and third 
party sales channels and post sales services 
could lead to poor customer outcomes, as 
well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss 
and reputational damage.

b) Financial crime
The Group may be adversely affected if it fails to 
effectively mitigate the risk that its employees or 
third parties facilitate, or that its products and 
services are used to facilitate financial crime 
(money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery 
and corruption and sanctions evasion). A major 
focus of US and UK government policy relating 
to financial institutions continues to be 
combating money laundering and enforcing 
compliance with US and EU economic 
sanctions. The failure to comply with such 
regulations may result in enforcement actions 
by the regulators and in the imposition of severe 
penalties, with a consequential impact on the 
Group's reputation and financial results.

c) Data protection and privacy
Proper handling of personal data is critical to 
sustaining long-term relationships with our 
customers and clients and to meeting privacy 
laws and obligations. Failure to protect personal 
data can lead to potential detriment to our 
customers and clients, reputational damage, 
regulatory sanctions and financial loss, which 
under the new EU Data Protection Regulation 
may be substantial.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 125

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

d) Regulatory focus on culture and 
accountability
Regulators around the world continue to 
emphasise the importance of culture and 
personal accountability and the adoption and 
enforcement of adequate internal reporting 
and whistleblowing procedures in helping to 
promote appropriate conduct and drive positive 
outcomes for customers, clients and markets. 
Failure to meet the requirements and 
expectations of the UK Senior Managers 
Regime, Certification Regime and Conduct 
Rules may lead to regulatory sanctions, both 
for the individuals and the firm.

vii) Reputation risk
Barclays' association with sensitive sectors 
and its impact on reputation
A risk arising in one business area can have an 
adverse effect upon Barclays' overall reputation; 
any one transaction, investment or event that, 
in the perception of key stakeholders reduces 
their trust in the Group's integrity and 
competence, has the potential to give rise to 
reputation risk for Barclays and may result in 
loss of business, regulatory censure and missed 
business opportunity.
Barclays' association with sensitive sectors 
is an area of concern for stakeholders and 
the following topics are of regular interest:

■■ Disclosure of climate risks and opportunities, 
including the activities of certain sections of 
the client base. This is becoming the subject 
of increased scrutiny from regulators, NGOs 
and other stakeholders.

■■ The risks of association with human rights 
violations through the perceived indirect 
involvement in human rights abuses 
committed by clients and customers.

■■ The manufacture and export of military and 
riot control goods and services by clients 
and customers.

viii) Legal risk and legal, competition and 
regulatory matters
Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines 
and other sanctions relating to conduct of 
business and breaches of legislation and/or 
regulations may negatively affect the Group's 
results, reputation and ability to conduct its 
business. Legal outcomes can arise as a 
consequence of legal risk or because of past 
and future actions, behaviours and business 
decisions as a result of other Principal Risks.

The Group conducts diverse activities in a 
highly regulated global market and therefore is 
exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions 
relating to the conduct of its business. In recent 
years, authorities have increasingly investigated 
past practices, pursued alleged breaches and 
imposed heavy penalties on financial services 
firms. This trend is expected to continue. 
A breach of applicable legislation and/or 
regulations could result in the Group or its 
staff being subject to criminal prosecution, 
regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions 
in the jurisdictions in which it operates, 
particularly in the UK and the US. Where clients, 
customers or other third parties are harmed 
by the Group's conduct, this may also give rise 

to legal proceedings, including class actions. 
Other legal disputes may also arise between the 
Group and third parties relating to matters such 
as breaches, enforcement of legal rights or 
obligations arising under contracts, statutes 
or common law. Adverse findings in any such 
matters may result in the Group being liable 
to third parties seeking damages, or may 
result in the Group's rights not being enforced 
as intended. 

Details of legal, competition and regulatory 
matters to which the Group is currently exposed 
are set out in Note 29. In addition to matters 
specifically described in Note 29, the Group is 
engaged in various other legal proceedings in 
the UK and US and a number of other overseas 
jurisdictions which arise in the ordinary course 
of business. The Group is also subject to 
requests for information, investigations and 
other reviews by regulators, governmental and 
other public bodies in connection with business 
activities in which the Group is, or has been, 
engaged. The Group is cooperating with the 
relevant authorities and keeping all relevant 
agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to 
these matters and others described in Note 29 
on an ongoing basis. 

The outcome of legal, competition and 
regulatory matters, both those to which the 
Group is currently exposed and any others 
which may arise in the future, is difficult to 
predict. However, in connection with such 
matters the Group may incur significant 
expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, 
and any such matters could expose the Group 
to any of the following outcomes: substantial 
monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; 
remediation of affected customers and clients; 
other penalties and injunctive relief; additional 
litigation; criminal prosecution in certain 
circumstances; the loss of any existing agreed 
protection from prosecution; regulatory 
restrictions on the Group's business operations 
including the withdrawal of authorisations; 
increased regulatory compliance requirements; 
suspension of operations; public reprimands; 
loss of significant assets or business; a negative 
effect on the Group's reputation; loss of 
confidence by investors, counterparties, clients 
and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency 
downgrades; potential negative impact on the 
availability and/or cost of funding and liquidity; 
and/or dismissal or resignation of key 
individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved 
in legal, competition and regulatory matters, 
there can be no assurance that the outcome 
of a particular matter or matters will not be 
material to the Group's results of operations or 
cash flow for a particular period, depending on, 
among other things, the amount of the loss 
resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of 
income otherwise reported for the period.

In January 2017, Barclays PLC was sentenced to 
serve three years of probation from the date of 
the sentencing order in accordance with the 
terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the 
Department of Justice (DOJ). During the term of 
probation Barclays PLC must, among other 
things, (i) commit no crime whatsoever in 
violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) 
implement and continue to implement a 

compliance program designed to prevent and 
detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea 
agreement, and (iii) strengthen its compliance 
and internal controls as required by relevant 
regulatory or enforcement agencies. Potential 
consequences of breaching the plea agreement 
include the imposition of additional terms and 
conditions on the Group, an extension of the 
agreement, or the criminal prosecution of 
Group entities, which could, in turn, entail 
further financial penalties and collateral 
consequences and have a material adverse 
effect on the Group's business, operating results 
or financial position.

There is also a risk that the outcome of any 
legal, competition or regulatory matters in 
which the Group is involved may give rise to 
changes in law or regulation as part of a wider 
response by relevant law makers and regulators. 
A decision in any matter, either against the 
Group or another financial institution facing 
similar claims, could lead to further claims 
against the Group.

Material existing and emerging risks

126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview
The credit risk that the Group faces arises 
mainly from wholesale and retail loans and 
advances together with the counterparty 
credit risk arising from derivative contracts 
with clients. Other sources of credit risk 
arise from trading activities, including: debt 
securities, settlement balances with market 
counterparties, available for sale assets and 
reverse repurchase loans.

Credit risk management objectives are to:
■■ maintain a framework of controls to enable 

credit risk taking to be based on sound 
credit risk management principles

■■ identify, assess and measure credit risk 
clearly and accurately across the Group 
and within each separate business, from 
the level of individual facilities up to the 
total portfolio

■■ control and plan credit risk taking in line 
with external stakeholder expectations 
and avoiding undesirable concentrations

■■ monitor credit risk and adherence to 
agreed controls

■■ enable risk-reward objectives to be met. 

More information covering the reporting of 
credit risk can be found in Barclays PLC  
Pillar 3 Report 2017. 

Organisation and structure
Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed 
separately to reflect the differing nature of the 
assets; wholesale balances tend to be larger 
and are managed on an individual basis, 
while retail balances are larger in number but 
smaller in value and are, therefore, managed 
on a homogeneous portfolio basis.

Credit risk management responsibilities have 
been structured so that decisions are taken 
as close as possible to the business, while 
enforcing robust review and challenge of 
performance, risk infrastructure and strategic 
plans. The credit risk management teams in 
each business are accountable to the relevant 
Business CRO who, in turn, reports to the 
Group CRO.

Roles and responsibilities
The responsibilities of the credit risk 
management teams in the businesses, the 
sanctioning team and other shared services 
include: sanctioning new credit agreements 
(principally wholesale); setting policies for 
approval of transactions (principally retail); 
setting risk appetite; monitoring risk against 
limits and other parameters; maintaining 
robust processes, data gathering, quality, 
storage and reporting methods for effective 
credit risk management; performing effective 
turnaround and workout scenarios for 
wholesale portfolios via dedicated 
restructuring and recoveries teams; 
maintaining robust collections and recovery 
processes/units for retail portfolios; and 
review and validation of credit risk 
measurement models.

For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval 
is undertaken by experienced credit risk 
professionals operating within a clearly 
defined delegated authority framework, with 
only the most senior credit officers entrusted 
with the higher levels of delegated authority. 
The largest credit exposures, which are 
outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk 
Distribution Committee authority require the 
support of the Group Senior Credit Officers 
(GSCOs), the Group's most senior credit risk 
sanctioners. For exposures in excess of the 
GSCOs' authority, approval from the Group 
CRO is required. In the wholesale portfolios, 
credit risk managers are organised in 
sanctioning teams by geography, industry 
and/or product.

The role of the Central Risk function is to 
provide Group-wide direction, oversight and 
challenge of credit risk taking. Central Risk 
sets the Credit Risk Control Framework, which 
provides the structure within which credit risk 
is managed, together with supporting credit 
risk policies.

Principal Risk management
Credit risk management

Risk review

Credit risk (audited)
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the 
firm, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

Board Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends to the Board the Group's risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk
■ reviews the Group's risk profile on behalf of the Board for wholesale and retail credit risk
■ commissions, receives and considers reports on wholesale and retail credit risk issues

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk and makes recommendations on the setting of limits to the Board
■ monitors the risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk
■ reviews and monitors the control environment for wholesale and retail credit risk

Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees
■ monitor the wholesale and retail credit risk profile against plan and agree 

required actions
■ review key wholesale and retail risk issues
■ review credit risk policies and framework
■ monitor risk appetite consumption – key credit portfolio (mandate and 

scale) limits

Business Unit Risk Committees
■ oversee activities and manage information relating to business unit portfolios, 

and identify actions needed to mitigate current and arising credit risks
■ review and approve business unit mandate and scale limits and, where 

relevant, provide recommendations for limits managed by wholesale and retail 
risk committees

■ review relevant decisions made by, and material issues and topics raised by, 
other forums and committees

Organisation and structure

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 127

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Credit risk mitigation
The Group employs a range of techniques and 
strategies to actively mitigate credit risks. 
These can broadly be divided into three types:
■■ netting and set-off
■■ collateral
■■ risk transfer.

Netting and set-off
In most jurisdictions in which the Group 
operates, credit risk exposures can be reduced 
by applying netting and set-off. In exposure 
terms, this credit risk mitigation technique has 
the largest overall impact on net exposure to 
derivative transactions, compared with other 
risk mitigation techniques.

For derivative transactions, the Group's 
normal practice is to enter into standard 
master agreements with counterparties (e.g. 
ISDAs). These master agreements typically 
allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a 
counterparty resulting from derivative 
transactions against the obligations to the 
counterparty in the event of default, and so 
produce a lower net credit exposure. These 
agreements may also reduce settlement 
exposure (e.g. for foreign exchange 
transactions) by allowing payments on the 
same day in the same currency to be set-off 
against one another.

Collateral
The Group has the ability to call on collateral 
in the event of default of the counterparty, 
comprising:
■■ home loans: a fixed charge over residential 

property in the form of houses, flats and 
other dwellings. The value of collateral is 
impacted by property market conditions 
which drive demand and therefore value of 
the property. Other regulatory interventions 
on ability to repossess, longer period to 
repossession and granting of forbearance 
may also affect the collateral value

■■ wholesale lending: a fixed charge over 
commercial property and other physical 
assets, in various forms

■■ other retail lending: includes charges over 
motor vehicle and other physical assets; 
second lien charges over residential 
property, which are subordinate to first 
charges held either by the Group or by 
another party; and finance lease receivables, 
for which typically the Group retains legal 
title to the leased asset and has the right 
to repossess the asset on the default of 
the borrower

■■ derivatives: the Group also often seeks to 
enter into a margin agreement (e.g. Credit 
Support Annex) with counterparties with 
which the Group has master netting 
agreements in place. These annexes to 
master agreements provide a mechanism 
for further reducing credit risk, whereby 
collateral (margin) is posted on a regular 
basis (typically daily) to collateralise the 
mark to market exposure of a derivative 
portfolio measured on a net basis. The 
Group may additionally negotiate the 
receipt of an independent amount further 
mitigating risk by collateralising potential 
mark to market exposure moves

■■ reverse repurchase agreements: collateral 
typically comprises highly liquid securities 
which have been legally transferred to the 
Group subject to an agreement to return 
them for a fixed price

■■ financial guarantees and similar 
off-balance sheet commitments: cash 
collateral may be held against these 
arrangements.

Risk transfer
A range of instruments including guarantees, 
credit insurance, credit derivatives and 
securitisation can be used to transfer credit 
risk from one counterparty to another. 
These mitigate credit risk in two main ways:
■■ if the risk is transferred to a counterparty 

which is more creditworthy than the 
original counterparty, then overall credit 
risk is reduced

■■ where recourse to the first counterparty 
remains, both counterparties must default 
before a loss materialises. This is less likely 
than the default of either counterparty 
individually so credit risk is reduced.

Detailed policies are in place to appropriately 
recognise and record credit risk mitigation 
and more information can be found in the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017. 

Principal Risk management
Credit risk management

Risk review

128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Principal Risk management
Market risk management

Overview
Market risk arises primarily as a result of client 
facilitation in wholesale markets, involving 
market-making activities, risk management 
solutions and execution of syndications. Upon 
execution of a trade with a client, the Group 
will look to hedge against the risk of the trade 
moving in an adverse direction. Mismatches 
between client transactions and hedges result 
in market risk due to changes in asset prices. 

Organisation and structure
Market risk in the businesses resides primarily 
in Barclays International and Group Treasury. 
These businesses have the mandate to incur 
market risk. Market risk oversight and 
challenge is provided by Business Committees 
and Group Committees, including the Market 
Risk Committee. 

Roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management 
are to: 
■■ understand and control market risk by 

robust measurement, limit setting, reporting 
and oversight

■■ facilitate business growth within a 
controlled and transparent risk 
management framework

■■ control market risk in the businesses 
according to the allocated appetite.

To meet the above objectives, a well 
established governance structure is in place to 
manage these risks consistent with the ERMF. 
See pages 119 and 120 on risk management 
strategy, governance and risk culture. 

The BRC recommends market risk appetite to 
the Board for their approval. The Market Risk 
Principal Risk Lead (PR Lead) is responsible 
for the Market Risk Control Framework and, 
under delegated authority from the Group 
CRO, agrees with the Business CROs a limit 
framework within the context of the approved 
market risk appetite.

The Market Risk Committee approves and 
makes recommendations concerning the 
Group-wide market risk profile. This includes 
overseeing the operation of the Market Risk 
Framework and associated standards 
and policies; reviewing arising market or 
regulatory issues, limits and utilisation; 
and risk appetite levels to the Board. The 
Committee is chaired by the PR Lead and 
attendees include the business heads of 
market risk, business aligned market risk 
managers and Internal Audit.

The head of each business is accountable for 
all market risks associated with its activities, 
while the head of the market risk team 
covering each business is responsible for 
implementing the risk control framework 
for market risk.

More information on market risk 
management can be found in Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Management Value at Risk
■■ estimates the potential loss arising from 

unfavourable market movements, over 
one day for a given confidence level

■■ differs from the Regulatory value at risk 
(VaR) used for capital purposes in scope, 
confidence level and horizon

■■ backtesting is performed to test the model 
is fit for purpose.

VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising 
from unfavourable market movements if the 
current positions were to be held unchanged 
for one business day. For internal market risk 
management purposes, a historical simulation 
methodology with a two-year equally 
weighted historical period, at the 95% 
confidence level is used for all trading books 
and some banking books.

The Management VaR model in some 
instances may not appropriately measure 
some market risk exposures, especially for 
market moves that are not directly observable 
via prices. Market risk managers are required 
to identify risks which are not adequately 
captured in VaR (‘risks not in VaR' or ‘RNIVs').

When reviewing VaR estimates, the following 
considerations are taken into account:
■■ the historical simulation uses the most 

recent two years of past data to generate 
possible future market moves, but the past 
may not be a good indicator of the future

■■ the one-day time horizon may not fully 
capture the market risk of positions that 
cannot be closed out or hedged within 
one day

■■ VaR is based on positions as at close of 
business and consequently, it is not an 
appropriate measure for intra-day risk 
arising from a position bought and sold 
on the same day

■■ VaR does not indicate the potential loss 
beyond the VaR confidence level.

Limits are applied at the total level as well as by 
risk factor type, which are then cascaded down 
to particular trading desks and businesses by 
the market risk management function.

See page 162 for a review of management 
VaR in 2017.

Risk review

Market risk (audited)
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, 
but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.

Board Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends to the Board the Group's risk appetite for market risk
■ reviews material events impacting market risk

Group Risk Committee
■ monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite
■ debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group
■ considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors

Market Risk Committee
■ oversees the management of the Group's market risk profile
■ reviews market risk appetite proposals from the business
■ reviews arising market or regulatory issues
■ reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses

Organisation and structure

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 129

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Principal Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

Overview
Barclays Treasury manages treasury and 
capital risk on a day-to-day basis with the 
Treasury Committee acting as the principal 
management body. To enforce effective 
oversight and segregation of duties and in line 
with the ERMF, the Treasury and Capital risk 
function is responsible for oversight of key 
capital, liquidity, interest rate risk in the 
banking book (IRRBB) and pension risk 
management activities. The following 
describes the structure and governance 
associated with the risk types within the 
Treasury and Capital risk function.

Liquidity risk management 
(audited)

Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is 
essential to the Group in retaining the 
confidence of the financial markets and 
maintaining that the business is sustainable. 
There is a control framework in place for 
managing liquidity risk and this is designed 
to meet the following objectives:
■■ to maintain liquidity resources that are 

sufficient in amount and quality and a 
funding profile that is appropriate to meet 
the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by 
the Board

■■ to maintain market confidence in the 
Group's name.

This is achieved via a combination of policy 
formation, review and governance, analysis, 
stress testing, limit setting and monitoring. 
Together, these meet internal and regulatory 
requirements. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury and Capital Risk function is 
responsible for the management and 
governance of the liquidity risk mandate 
defined by the Board and the production of 
ILAAPs. Treasury has the primary responsibility 
for managing liquidity risk within the set risk 
appetite. The CRO for treasury and capital risk 
reports to the Group CRO.

Barclays' comprehensive control framework 
for managing the Group's liquidity risk is 
designed to deliver the appropriate term 
and structure of funding consistent with the 
Liquidity Risk Appetite (LRA) set by the Board.

The Board sets the LRA based on the internal 
liquidity risk model and external regulatory 
requirements namely the Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR). The LRA is represented as 
the level of risk the Group chooses to take 
in pursuit of its business objectives and 
in meeting its regulatory obligations. 
The approved LRA is implemented in line 
with the control framework and policy for 
liquidity risk.

The control framework incorporates a range 
of ongoing business management tools to 
monitor, limit and stress test the Group's 
balance sheet and contingent liabilities and 

the Recovery Plan. Limit setting and transfer 
pricing are tools that are designed to control 
the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the 
appropriate mix of funds. Together, these 
tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity 
stress event could lead to an inability to 
meet the Group's obligations as they fall due. 
The control framework is subject to internal 
conformance testing and internal audit review.

The liquidity stress tests assess the potential 
contractual and contingent stress outflows 
under a range of scenarios, which are then 
used to determine the size of the liquidity 
pool that is immediately available to meet 
anticipated outflows if a stress occurs.

The Group maintains a range of management 
actions for use in a liquidity stress, these are 
documented in the Group Recovery Plan. Since 
the precise nature of any stress event cannot 
be known in advance, the actions are designed 
to be flexible to the nature and severity of the 
stress event and provide a menu of options 
that can be drawn upon as required. The 
Barclays Group Recovery Plan also contains 
more severe recovery options to generate 
additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery 
in a severe stress. Any stress event would be 
regularly monitored and reviewed using key 
management information by key Treasury, 
Risk and business representatives.

Capital risk management 
(audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing 
monitoring and management of the capital 
position, regular stress testing and a robust 
capital governance framework. 

Roles and responsibilities
The management of capital risk is integral 
to the Group's approach to financial stability 
and sustainability management, and is 
embedded in the way businesses and legal 
entities operate.

Capital risk management is underpinned by 
a control framework and policy. The capital 
management strategy, outlined in the Group 
and legal entity capital plans, is developed in 
alignment with the control framework and 
policy for capital risk, and is implemented 
consistently in order to deliver on the 
Group's objectives.

Treasury and capital risk
Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.

Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its 
regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning 
or regulatory testing purposes). This includes the risk from the firm's pension plans.

Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the 
interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities. 

Board Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends to the Board the Group's risk appetite for treasury and capital risk
■ reviews material issues impacting treasury and capital risk
■ approves the ICAAP and ILAAP

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends risk appetite to the BRC
■ escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the BRC
■ reviews and recommends the ICAAP and ILAAP to the BRC for approval

Treasury and Capital Risk Committee
■ manages treasury and capital risk appetite
■ monitors the treasury and capital risk profile
■ monitors the treasury and capital risk control environment
■ reviews and recommends risk appetite to the GRC and BRC
■ escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the GRC and BRC

Organisation and structure

Risk review

130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The Board approves the Group capital plan, 
internal stress tests and results of regulatory 
stress tests, and the Group recovery plan. 
The Treasury Committee is responsible for 
monitoring and managing capital risk in 
line with the Group's capital management 
objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. 
The Treasury and Capital Risk Committee 
monitors and reviews the capital risk profile 
and control environment, providing Second 
Line oversight of the management of capital 
risk. The BRC reviews the risk profile, and 
annually reviews risk appetite and the impact 
of stress scenarios on the Group capital plan/
forecast in order to agree the Group's 
projected capital adequacy. 

Local management assures compliance with 
an entity's minimum regulatory capital 
requirements by reporting to local Asset and 
Liability Committees with oversight by the 
Group's Treasury Committee, as required.

Treasury has the primary responsibility for 
managing and monitoring capital and reports 
to the Group Finance Director. The Treasury 
and Capital Risk function contains a Capital 
Risk Oversight team, and is an independent 
risk function that reports to the Group CRO 
and is responsible for oversight of capital risk 
and production of ICAAPs.

Pension risk 
The Group maintains a number of defined 
benefit pension schemes for past and current 
employees. The ability of the pension fund 
to meet the projected pension payments is 
maintained principally through investments. 

Pension risk arises because the estimated 
market value of the pension fund assets might 
decline; investment returns might reduce; or 
the estimated value of the pension liabilities 
might increase. The Group monitors the 
pension risks arising from its defined benefit 
pension schemes and works with Trustees to 
address shortfalls. In these circumstances the 
Group could be required or might choose to 
make extra contributions to the pension fund. 
The Group's main defined benefit scheme was 
closed to new entrants in 2012.

Interest rate risk in the 
banking book management
Overview
Banking book operations generate non-traded 
market risk, primarily through the mismatch 
between the duration of assets and liabilities 
and where interest rates on products reset 
at different dates. As per the Group's policy 
to remain within the defined risk appetite, 
interest rate and FX risks residing in the 
banking books of the businesses are 
transferred to Treasury where they are 
centrally managed. Currently, these risks 
are transferred to Treasury via funding 
arrangements, interest rate or FX swaps. 
However, the businesses remain susceptible 
to market risk from seven key sources:
■■ repricing/residual risk: the impact from the 

mismatch between the run-off of product 
balances and the associated interest rate 
hedges or from unhedged liquidity buffer 
investments

■■ structural risk: the change to the net 
interest income on hedge replenishment 
due to adverse movements in interest 
rates, assuming that the balance sheet 
is held static

■■ prepayment risk: the potential loss in value 
if actual prepayment or early withdrawal 
behaviour from customers deviates from 
the expected or contractually agreed 
behaviour, which may result in a hedge or 
funding adjustment at a cost to the bank. 
Exposures are typically considered (where 
appropriate) net of any applicable offsetting 
early repayment charges. This risk 
principally relates to early repayment of 
fixed rate loans or withdrawal from fixed 
rate savings products 

■■ recruitment risk: the potential loss in value 
if the actual completion or drawdown 
behaviour from customers deviates from 
the expected behaviour, which may result in 
a hedge or funding adjustment at a cost to 
the bank. This risk principally relates to the 
completion timing around the Bank's fixed 
rate mortgage pipeline process 

■■ margin compression risk: the effect of 
internal or market forces on a bank's net 
margin where, for example, in a low rate 
environment any fall in rates will further 
decrease interest income earned on the 
assets whereas funding cost cannot be 
reduced as it is already at the minimum level

■■ lag risk: arises from the delay in 
repricing customer rates for certain 
variable/managed rate products, following 
an underlying change to market interest 
rates. This is typically driven by either 
regulatory constraint around customer 
notification on pricing changes, processing 
time for the Group's notification systems or 
contractual agreements within a product's 
terms and conditions

■■ asset swap spread risk: the spread between 
Libor and sovereign bond yields that arises 
from the management of the liquidity buffer 
investments and its associated hedges. 

Furthermore, liquidity buffer investments 
are generally subject to available for sale 
accounting rules, whereby changes in the 
value of these assets impact capital via other 
comprehensive income (OCI), creating 
volatility in capital directly.

Roles and responsibilities
The non-traded market risk team provides 
risk management oversight and monitoring 
of all traded and non-traded market risk in 
Treasury and customer banking books, which 
specifically includes:
■■ interest rate risk assessment in the 

customer banking books
■■ review and challenge the behavioural 

assumptions used in hedging and 
transfer pricing

■■ risk management of the liquidity buffer 
investments and funding activities

■■ oversight of balance sheet hedging 
■■ review of residual risk in the hedge 

accounting solution and hedging 
of net investments

■■ proposes and monitors risk limits to 
manage traded and non-traded market 
risk within the agreed risk appetite.

Capital risk management core practicesCapital risk management primary objectives

■ maintain adequate capital to withstand the impact of the risks that may arise 
under the normal and stressed conditions analysed by the Group

■ meet minimum regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions
■ maintain capital buffers over regulatory minimums
■ perform Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests
■ develop contingency plans for severe and extreme stresses, which include 

stress management actions and recovery actions
■ maintain adequate capital to cover the Group's current and forecast business 

needs and associated risks in order to provide a viable and sustainable 
business offering

■ maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations

■ maintain a capital plan on a short-term and medium-term basis aligned with 
the Group's strategic objectives, balancing capital generation of the business 
with business growth and shareholder distributions

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 131

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Principal Risk management
Operational risk management

Risk review

Overview
The management of operational risk has three 
key objectives:
■■ deliver an operational risk capability owned 

and used by business leaders which is 
pragmatic, relevant, and enables business 
leaders to make sound risk decisions over 
the long term

■■ provide the frameworks, policies and tools 
to enable management to meet their risk 
management responsibilities while the 
Second Line of Defence provides robust, 
independent, and effective oversight 
and challenge

■■ deliver a consistent and aggregated 
measurement of operational risk that 
will provide clear and relevant insights, 
so that the right management actions can 
be taken to keep the operational risk profile 
consistent with the Group's strategy, the 
stated risk appetite, the client franchise, 
and other stakeholder needs.

The Group is committed to the management 
and measurement of operational risk and was 
granted a waiver by the FSA (now the PRA) to 
operate an advanced measurement approach 
(AMA) for operational risk, which commenced 
in January 2008. The majority of the Group 
calculates regulatory capital requirements 
using AMA (94% of capital requirements), 
except for small parts of the organisation 

acquired since the original permission 
(6% of capital requirements) using the basic 
indicator approach (BIA). The Group works 
to benchmark its internal operational risk 
management and measurement practices 
with peer banks.

The Group is committed to operating within a 
strong system of internal controls that enables 
business to be transacted and risk taken 
without exposing the Group to unacceptable 
potential losses or reputational damages. 
The Group has an overarching ERMF that 
sets out the approach to internal governance. 
The ERMF establishes the mechanisms and 
processes by which the Board directs the 
organisation, through setting the tone and 
expectations from the top, delegating 
authority and monitoring compliance. 

Organisation and structure
Operational risk comprises a number of 
specific risks defined as follow:
■■ data management and information risk:  

The risk that Barclays information is not 
captured, retained, used or protected in 
accordance with its value and legal and 
regulatory requirements

■■ financial reporting risk: The risk of a 
material misstatement or omission within 
the Group's external financial, regulatory 
reporting or internal management reporting

■■ fraud risk: The risk of financial loss when 
an internal or external party acts dishonestly 
with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, 
cause a loss to, or to expose either the 
Group or its customers and clients to 
a risk of loss

■■ payments process risk: The risk of 
payments being processed inaccurately, 
with delays, without appropriate 
authentication and authorisation

■■ people risk: The risk that Barclays is 
exposed to by virtue of being an employer 
(excluding Health and Safety related risk) 

■■ premises and security risk: The risk of 
interruption to Barclays' business due to the 
unavailability of premises and infrastructure 
as a result of intentional or accidental 
damage to premises and moveable assets, 
physical security breaches and safety and 
security incidents

■■ supplier risk: The risk that is introduced 
to the firm or entity as a consequence of 
obtaining services or goods from another 
legal entity as a result of inadequate 
selection, inadequate exit and supplier 
management, resulting in operational, 
financial, or reputational risk to the 
bank, failure of services and/or negative 
customer impact 

Operational risk
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes, systems, human factors or due to external events (for example, fraud) where 
the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.

Board Risk Committee 
■ approves Operational Risk Management Framework
■ operational risk capital oversight
■ recommends and monitors operational risk appetite and the residual risk 

position, supported by feedback from the Board Audit Committee/Group Chief 
Controls Officer

Board Audit Committee 
■ oversees that the operating effectiveness of the control environment is satisfactory
■ oversees remediation of control issues
■ feedback to the Board Risk Committee where concerns exist over the impact on 

residual risk through either the design or operating effectiveness of the control 
environment

Group Controls Committee
■ oversees effectiveness of control environment
■ reviews and recommends control framework
■ oversees control remediation activities
■ oversees execution of Operational Risk Management Framework consistently 

across the Group
■ oversees risk and internal control matters including significant issues
■ escalations to Board level

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends risk appetite and risk limits across the Principal Risks 

to the Board
■ monitors the Group risk profile and the utilisation of risk appetite
■ reviews appetite, limit usage and risk management within tolerance agreed 

by the Board
■ reviews deep dives of specific risks as requested
■ reviews the impact of any material acquisitions and disposals on the risk profile
■ reviews remediation plans and actions taken, and agrees any further action 

required
■ escalations to Board level

Business and Function Risk Committees
■ manage and oversee the risk at the Business Unit/Function level 
■ escalate to Group level

Business and Function Control Committees
■ manage and oversee the control environment at the Business Unit/

Function level 
■ escalate to Group level

[•]

Organisation and structure

132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
■■ tax risk: The risk of unexpected tax cost 
in relation to any tax for which Barclays is 
liable, or of reputational damage on tax 
matters with key stakeholders such as tax 
authorities, regulators, shareholders or the 
public. Tax cost includes tax, interest or 
penalties levied by a taxing authority

■■ technology risk: The risk that comes 
about due to dependency on technological 
solutions and is defined as failure to 
develop, deploy and maintain technology 
solutions that are stable, reliable and deliver 
what the business needs

■■ transaction operations risk: The risk of 
Customer/Client or Bank detriment due 
to unintentional error and/or failure in the 
end-to-end process of initiation, processing 
and fulfilment of an interaction between 
a Customer/Client and the Bank with 
an underlying financial instrument 
(e.g. mortgage, derivative product, 
trade product etc.).

These risks may result in financial and/or 
non-financial impacts including legal/
regulatory breaches or reputational damages. 

Roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management 
of operational risk and compliance with 
control requirements rests with the business 
and functional units where the risk arises. 
The operational risk profile and control 
environment is reviewed by business 
management through specific meetings 
which cover governance, risk and control. 
Businesses are required to report their 
operational risks on both a regular and an 
event-driven basis. The reports include a 
profile of the material risks that may threaten 
the achievement of their objectives and the 
effectiveness of key controls, operational risk 
events and a review of scenarios.

The Group Head of Operational Risk is 
responsible for establishing, owning and 
maintaining an appropriate Group-wide 
Operational Risk Management Framework 
and for overseeing the portfolio of operational 
risk across the Group.

Operational Risk Management (ORM) acts 
in a Second Line of Defence capacity, and is 
responsible for defining and overseeing the 
implementation of the framework and 
monitoring Barclays operational risk profile. 
ORM alerts management when risk levels 
exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite in 
order to drive timely decision-making and 
actions by the First Line of Defence. Through 
attendance at Business Risk Committee 
meetings, ORM provide specific risk input 
into the issues highlighted and the overall risk 
profile of the business. Operational risk issues 
escalated from these meetings are considered 
through the Second Line of Defence review 
meetings. Depending on their nature, the 
outputs of these meetings are presented to 
the BRC or the BAC.

For further information on operational 
risk management, risk and control self-
assessments and risk scenarios, please 
refer to the operational risk management 
section on pages 170 to 173 in Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2017. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 133

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Principal Risk management
Model risk management

Overview
Barclays uses models to support a broad 
range of activities, including informing 
business decisions and strategies, measuring 
and limiting risk, valuing exposures, 
conducting stress testing, assessing capital 
adequacy, managing client assets, and 
meeting reporting requirements. 

Since models are imperfect and incomplete 
representations of reality, they may be subject 
to errors affecting the accuracy of their 
output. Model errors can result in 
inappropriate business decisions being made, 
financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk 
and/or inadequate capital reporting. Models 
may also be misused, for instance applied to 
products that they were not intended for, or 
not adjusted, where fundamental changes to 
their environment would justify re-evaluating 
their core assumptions. Errors and misuse are 
the primary sources of model risk.

Robust model risk management is crucial to 
assessing and managing model risk within a 
defined risk appetite. Strong model risk 
culture, appropriate technology environment, 
and adequate focus on understanding and 
resolving model limitations are crucial 
components. 

Organisation and structure
Barclays allocates substantial resources to 
identify and record models and their usage, 
document and monitor the performance of 
models, validate models and adequately 
address model limitations. Barclays manages 
model risk as an enterprise level risk similar to 
other Principal Risks.

Barclays has a dedicated Model Risk 
Management (MRM) function that consists of 
two main units: the Independent Validation 
Unit (IVU), responsible for model validation 
and approval, and Model Governance and 
Controls (MGC), covering model risk 
governance, controls and reporting, including 
ownership of model risk policy and the model 
inventory.

The model risk management framework 
consists of the model risk policy and 
standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, 
end-to-end requirements for the identification, 
measurement and management of model risk, 
covering model documentation, development, 
implementation, monitoring, annual review, 
independent validation and approval, change 
and reporting processes. The policy is 
supported by global standards covering model 
inventory, documentation, validation, 
complexity and materiality, testing and 
monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well as 
vendor models and stress testing challenger 
models.

Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk 
management. The function reports to the 
Group CRO and operates a global framework. 
Implementation of best practice standards is a 
central objective of the Group. Model risk 
reporting flows to senior management as 
depicted below.

Roles and responsibilities
The key model risk management activities 
include: 
■■ Correctly identifying models across all 

relevant areas of the firm, and recording 
models in the Group Models Database 
(GMD), the Group-wide model inventory. 
The heads of the relevant model ownership 
areas (typically, the Business Chief Risk 
Officers, Business Chief Executive Officers, 

the Treasurer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
etc.) annually attest to the completeness 
and accuracy of the model inventory. MGC 
undertakes regular conformance reviews on 
the model inventory.

■■ Enforcing that every model has a model 
owner who is accountable for the model. 
The model owner must sign off models 
prior to submission to IVU for validation. 
The model owner works with the relevant 
technical teams (model developers, 
implementation, monitoring, data services, 
regulatory) to maintain that the model 
presented to IVU is and remains fit for 
purpose.

■■ Overseeing that every model is subject to 
validation and approval by IVU, prior to 
being implemented and on a continual 
basis. While all models are reviewed and 
re-approved for continued use each year, 
the validation frequency and the level of 
review and challenge applied by IVU is 
tailored to the materiality and complexity of 
each model. Validation includes a review of 
the model assumptions, conceptual 
soundness, data, design, performance 
testing, compliance with external 
requirements if applicable, as well as any 
limitations, proposed remediation and 
overlays with supporting rationale. Material 
model changes are subject to prioritised 
validation and approval.

■■ Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk 
tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are 
used to track and report model risk.

■■ Maintaining specific standards that cover 
model risk management activities relating 
to stress testing challenger models, model 
overlays, vendor models, and model 
complexity and materiality.

Risk review

Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs 
and reports.

Board Risk Committee
■ reviews and recommends to the Board the Group's risk appetite for model risk
■ reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages model risk
■ assesses performance relative to model risk appetite

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews risk appetite across model risk
■ monitors the Group risk profile for model risk, including emerging risks, against expected trends, and the utilisation of risk appetite

Business Unit Risk Committees
■ review critical updates on model risk e.g. updates on Group-wide remediation plans
■ review targeted updates on progress toward meeting regulatory deliverables
■ review identified policy breaches

Organisation and structure

134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Principal Risk management
Conduct risk management

Risk review

Overview
The Group defines, manages and mitigates 
conduct risk with the goal of providing 
positive customer and client outcomes, 
protecting market integrity and promoting 
effective competition. This includes taking 
reasonable steps to assure the Group's culture 
and strategy are appropriately aligned to these 
goals, products and services are reasonably 
designed and delivered to meet the needs of 
customers and clients, as well as promoting 
the fair and orderly operation of the markets 
in which the Group does business and that the 
Group does not commit or facilitate money 
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and 
corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.

Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and 
Financial Crime are the risk categories under 
conduct risk. 

Organisation and structure
The governance of conduct risk within 
Barclays is fulfilled through management 
Committees and forums operated by the 
First and Second Lines of Defence with clear 
escalation and reporting lines to the Board.

The GRC is the most senior executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of Barclays' management of 
conduct risk. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework 
(CRMF) comprises a number of elements that 
allow the Group to manage and measure its 
conduct risk profile. 

Senior Managers have ownership within 
their areas for managing conduct risk. 
These individuals have a Statement of 
Responsibilities identifying the activities and 
areas for which they are accountable. The 
primary responsibility for managing conduct 
risk and compliance with control requirements 
sits with the business where the risk arises. 
The First Line Business Control Committees 
provide oversight of controls relating to 
conduct risk. 

The Group Chief Compliance Officer is 
responsible for owning and maintaining an 
appropriate Group-wide CRMF for overseeing 
Group-wide conduct risk management. This 
includes defining and owning the relevant 
conduct risk policies and oversight of the 
implementation of controls to manage the 
risk.

Businesses are required to report their 
conduct risks on both a quarterly and an 
event-driven basis. The quarterly reports detail 
conduct risks inherent within the business 
strategy and include forward-looking horizon 
scanning analysis as well as backward-looking 
evidence-based indicators from both internal 
and external sources. 

The Business Unit Risk Committees and 
the Financial Crime Business Oversight 
Committees are the primary Second Line 
governance forums for oversight of conduct 
risk profile and implementation of the CRMF. 
The responsibilities of the Business Unit Risk 
Committees include approval of the conduct 
risk tolerance and the business defined key 
indicators. Additional responsibilities include 
the identification and discussion of any 
emerging conduct risks exposures which 
have been identified. 

Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, 
including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct. 

Board Reputation Committee
■ reviews and recommends to the Board the Group's risk appetite for conduct risk
■ reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages conduct risk
■ monitors the conduct risk profile of the Group
■ monitors culture and cultural transformation

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews and monitors the effectiveness of conduct risk management

Business Unit Risk Committees and Financial Crime Business Oversight Committees
■ oversee the management of the Group's conduct risk profile as the primary Second Line governance forum
■ oversee the implementation of the Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF)
■ oversee existing and emerging conduct risk exposures

Organisation and structure

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 135

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Principal Risk management
Reputation risk management

Overview
A reduction of trust in Barclays' integrity and 
competence may reduce the attractiveness of 
Barclays to stakeholders and could lead to 
negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory 
or legislative action, loss of existing and 
potential client business, reduced workforce 
morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. 
Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.

Organisation and structure
The GRC is the most senior executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of Barclays' management of 
reputation risk. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Chief Compliance Officer is accountable 
for developing a reputation risk framework 
and policies including limits against which 
data is monitored, reported on and escalated, 
as required. 

Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and can 
be difficult to quantify, requiring more 
subjective judgement than many other risks. 
The Reputation Risk Framework sets out 
what is required to manage reputation risk 
effectively and consistently across the Bank. 

The primary responsibility for identifying 
and managing reputation risk and adherence 
to the control requirements sits with the 
business and support functions where 
the risk arises. 

Barclays International and Barclays UK are 
required to operate within established 
reputation risk appetite and their component 
businesses submit quarterly reports to the 
Group Reputation Management team, 
highlighting their most significant current and 
potential reputation risks and issues and how 
they are being managed. These reports are a 
key internal source of information for the 
quarterly reputation risk reports which are 
prepared for the GRC and RepCo. 

Risk review

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, 
investors, regulators, employees or the public. 

Board Reputation Committee
■ reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages reputation risk
■ considers and evaluates regular reports on Barclays' reputation risk issues and exposures
■ considers whether significant business decisions will compromise Barclays' ethical policies or core business beliefs and values

Group Risk Committee
■ reviews the monitoring processes utilised by Compliance and Citizenship and Reputation for appropriateness given the level of risk identified in the businesses
■ reports reputation issues in accordance with Barclays' Reputation Risk Framework for all material issues which may have the potential to incur reputation risk for Barclays 

Business Unit Risk Committees
■ review and escalate reputation risks in accordance with the Reputation Risk Framework

Organisation and structure

136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Principal Risk management
Legal risk management

Risk review

Overview 
The Legal Risk Management Framework 
(LRMF) prescribes Group-wide requirements 
for the identification, escalation, measurement 
and management of legal risk, covering 
assessment, risk tolerance, key indicators and 
governance. The LRMF is supported by 
Group-wide legal risk policies and associated 
standards aligned to the following legal risks:

■■ contractual arrangements – the Group's 
rights and remedies in its relationships with 
other parties not being enforceable as 
intended due to the absence of appropriate 
contractual documentation or defects 
therein

■■ litigation management – failure to 
adequately manage litigation involving 
the Group

■■ intellectual property (IP) – failure to protect 
the Group's IP assets or the Group infringing 
valid IP rights of third parties

■■ competition/anti-trust – failure to 
adequately manage competition/anti-trust 
issues or failure to manage relationships 
with competition/anti-trust authorities.

■■ use of law firms – failure to control 
instruction of external law firms

■■ contact with regulators – failure to manage 
interactions with regulators or failure to 
manage the receipt and handling of 
regulatory information from a regulatory or 
government agency appropriately. 

The LRMF requires businesses and functions 
to integrate the management of legal risk 
within their strategic planning and business 
decision-making, including adopting 
processes to identify legal risk exposures 
and managing adherence to the minimum 
control requirements.

In addition to legal risk detailed above, legal 
outcomes, including losses or the imposition 
of penalties, damages, fines and sanctions, 
may arise because of past and future actions, 
behaviours and business decisions aligned 
to the Principal Risk which gave rise to the 
outcome, including but not limited to conduct 
and operational risk. Details of current 
contentious legal matters in relation to the 
Group are set out in Note 29. 

Organisation and structure
Business/function risk forums have oversight 
of their legal risk profile and implementation 
of the LRMF. The Legal Executive Committee 
oversees, challenges and monitors legal risk 
across the Group. The GRC is the most senior 
executive body responsible for reviewing and 
monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays' 
management of risk. Escalation paths from 
this forum exist to the BRC.

Roles and responsibilities
The primary responsibility for identifying and 
managing legal risk and adherence to the 
minimum control requirements sits with the 
businesses/functions where the risk resides.

On behalf of the businesses/functions, the 
aligned General Counsel or members of 
Legal senior management provide oversight 
and challenge of the legal risk profile, for 
example by undertaking legal risk tolerance 
assessments, and providing advice on legal 
risk management. Legal risk tolerance 
assessments include both quantitative and 
qualitative criteria such as: 
■■ risk and control self-assessment, lessons 

learned, testing and monitoring processes 
■■ analysis of legal risk material control issues 

or weaknesses
■■ potential legal risks resulting from 

upcoming changes in the control 
environment, systems, or internal 
organisational structures

■■ potential implications on the Group of 
forthcoming changes in the external legal 
and regulatory environment and/or 
prevailing decisions from courts and 
enforcing authorities as they relate to 
defined legal risks.

The Group General Counsel supported by the 
Global Head of Legal Risk, Governance and 
Control is responsible for maintaining an 
appropriate LRMF and for overseeing 
Group-wide legal risk management.

Legal risk 
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory 
or contractual requirements.

Board Risk Committee
■ approves risk tolerances
■ reviews risk profile and material risk issues
■ commissions, receives and considers reports on key risk issues

Group Risk Committee
■ monitors risk profile with respect to non-financial risk tolerances
■ debates and agrees actions on the non-financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group
■ considers escalated issues

Legal Executive Committee
■ oversees, challenges and monitors legal risk across the Group
■ oversees and challenges effectiveness of the non-financial risk and control environment within the legal function
■ considers issues of significance relating to legal risk and control

Business/Function Risk Forums and Committees
■ oversee the legal risk profile of the relevant business/function
■ review conclusions from risk and control assessments and emerging risk issues 
■ oversee significant risk events and lessons learned assessments

Organisation and structure

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 137

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Summary of contents Page
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the 
Group and mainly arises from exposure to 
wholesale and retail loans and advances 
together with the counterparty credit risk 
arising from derivative contracts entered 
into with clients.

This section provides a macro view of the 
Group's credit exposures.

■■ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 139
■■ The Group's maximum exposure and collateral and other credit enhancements held 139
■■ The Group's approach to management and representation of credit quality 142

 – Asset credit quality 142
 – Debt securities 142
 – Balance sheet credit quality 142

The Group reviews and monitors risk 
concentrations in a variety of ways.

This sections outlines performance against 
key concentration risks at a macro Group 
level.

■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 144
 – Geographic concentrations 144
 – Industrial concentrations 145

In addition to Group wide concentrations, 
credit risk monitors exposure performance 
across a range of specific portfolios.

■■ Loans and advances to customers and banks 147
■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 148

 – Secured home loans 148
 – Credit cards and unsecured loans 149
 – Wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 150

The Group monitors exposures to assets 
where there is a heightened likelihood of 
default and assets where an actual default 
has occurred.

This section outlines the exposure to assets 
that have been classified as impaired 
analysing the exposures between business 
units and by key product types.

The Group, from time to time, agrees 
to the suspension of certain aspects 
of customer/client credit agreements, 
generally during temporary periods of 
financial difficulties where the Group is 
confident that the customer/client will 
be able to remedy the suspension.

This section outlines the Group's current 
exposure to assets with this treatment.

■■ Analysis of problem loans 151
 – Age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not impaired 151
 – Analysis of loans and advances assessed as impaired 151
 – Potential credit risk loans and coverage ratios 152
 – Impaired loans 153
 – Forbearance 153

The Group holds impairment provisions on 
the balance sheet as a result of the raising of 
a charge against profit for incurred losses in 
the lending book. An impairment allowance 
may either be identified or unidentified and 
individual or collective.

This section outlines the movements in 
allowance for impairment by asset class 
exposure, material management adjustments 
to model output, analysis of debt securities 
and derivatives.

■■ Impairment 156
 – Impairment allowances 156
 – Management adjustments to models for impairment 156

■■ Analysis of debt securities 157
■■ Analysis of derivatives 157

Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the 
Group and mainly arises from exposure to 
wholesale and retail loans and advances 
together with the counterparty credit risk 
arising from derivative contracts entered into 
with clients. A summary of performance may 
be found below.

This section provides an analysis of areas 
of particular interest or potentially of higher 
risk, including: i) balance sheet, including the 
maximum exposure, collateral, credit quality, 
and loans and advances; ii) areas of 
concentrations; iii) exposure to and 
performance metrics for specific portfolios 
and assets types, including home loans and 
credit cards; iv) problem loans, including 
credit risk loans (CRLs) and forbearance; 
and v) impairment, including impairment 
allowances and management adjustments 
to model outputs.

Please see the credit risk management section 
on pages 127 to 128 for details of governance, 
policies and procedures. 

Summary of performance in 
the period
Loan impairment charges decreased £19m 
to £2,333m. Total loans and advances net of 
impairment decreased by £34.1bn to £415.4bn 
driven by a net £12.7bn decrease in cash 
collateral and settlement balances and a 
£21.4bn decrease in other lending, primarily 
in Corporate and Investment Bank. Overall, 
this resulted in a 4bps increase in the LLR to 
57bps.

Credit risk loans (CRLs) decreased to £6.0bn 
(December 2016: £6.5bn) and the CRL 
coverage ratio increased to 78% 
(December 2016: 71%) mainly within 
retail portfolios.

Analysis of the balance sheet 

Group's maximum exposure 
and collateral and other credit 
enhancements held

Basis of preparation
The following tables present a reconciliation 
between the Group's maximum exposure 
and its net exposure to credit risk; reflecting 
the financial effects of collateral, credit 
enhancements and other actions taken 
to mitigate the Group's exposure.

For financial assets recognised on the balance 
sheet, maximum exposure to credit risk 
represents the balance sheet carrying 
value after allowance for impairment. For 
off-balance sheet guarantees, the maximum 
exposure is the maximum amount that the 
Group would have to pay if the guarantees 
were to be called upon. For loan commitments 
and other credit related commitments that 
are irrevocable over the life of the respective 
facilities, the maximum exposure is the full 
amount of the committed facilities.

Credit risk
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including 
sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely 
payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

All disclosures in this section (pages 139 to 158) are unaudited unless otherwise stated. 

Key metrics
Loan impairment charges in 2017 were 1% lower than 2016:

Group  -£19m 
Loan impairment reduced slightly reflecting lower charges in Barclays 
UK and in the Barclays International wholesale portfolios partially offset 
by an adjustment relating to an asset sale in US cards.

Retail  +£42m
Overall the retail portfolios have remained stable and broadly within 
expectations. Notwithstanding this, impairment charges increased 
primarily due to an adjustment relating to an asset sale in US cards.

Wholesale  -£61m
Impairment charges have decreased, despite a large single name 
impairment, driven by a range of releases and materially lower charges 
to the oil sector.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 139

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

This and subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets subject to credit risk. They exclude other financial assets not subject to 
credit risk, mainly equity securities held for trading, as available for sale or designated at fair value, and traded commodities. Assets designated at 
fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have also not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit 
risk on these assets. Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and not result in a loss to the Group. 
For off-balance sheet exposures certain contingent liabilities not subject to credit risk such as performance guarantees are excluded.

The Group mitigates the credit risk to which it is exposed through netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer. Further detail on the Group's 
policies to each of these forms of credit enhancement is presented on pages 146 to 149 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Overview
As at 31 December 2017, the Group's net exposure to credit risk after taking into account netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer increased 
7% to £790.5bn. Overall, the extent to which the Group holds mitigation against its total exposure decreased to 43% (2016: 47%).

Of the remaining exposure left unmitigated, a significant portion relates to cash held at central banks, financial investment debt securities issued 
by governments and cash collateral and settlement balances, all of which are considered to be lower risk. Increases in cash held at central banks 
and financial investment debt securities in the period have driven the increase in the Group's net exposure to credit risk. Trading portfolio liability 
positions, which to a significant extent economically hedge trading portfolio assets but which are not held specifically for risk management 
purposes, are excluded from the analysis. The credit quality of counterparties to derivatives, financial investments and wholesale loan assets are 
predominantly investment grade. Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented on pages 142 to 143.

Where collateral has been obtained in the event of default, the Group does not, as a rule, use such assets for its own operations and they are 
usually sold on a timely basis. The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31 December 2017, as a result of the enforcement of collateral, 
was £nil (2016: £16m).

Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

Maximum
exposure

£m

Netting
and set-off

£m

Collateral
Risk transfer

£m
Net exposure

£m
Cash

£m
Non-cash

£m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 – – – – 171,082
Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,153 – – – – 2,153
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 51,200 – – – – 51,200
Traded loans 3,140 – – (128) – 3,012
Total trading portfolio assets 54,340 – – (128) – 54,212
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 11,037 – (440) (5,497) (344) 4,756
Debt securities 15 – – – – 15
Reverse repurchase agreements 100,040 – (426) (99,428) – 186
Other financial assets 519 – – – – 519
Total financial assets designated at fair value 111,611 – (866) (104,925) (344) 5,476
Derivative financial instruments 237,669 (184,265) (33,092) (6,170) (5,885) 8,257
Loans and advances to banks 35,663 – (6) (583) (37) 35,037
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 147,002 – (158) (146,554) – 290
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 55,767 – (241) (3,995) (16) 51,515
Corporate loans 162,783 (6,617) (224) (45,819) (4,341) 105,782
Total loans and advances to customers 365,552 (6,617) (623) (196,368) (4,357) 157,587
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 12,546 – – (12,226) – 320
Financial investments – debt securities 57,129 – – (463) (853) 55,813
Other assets 869 – – – – 869
Total on-balance sheet 1,048,614 (190,882) (34,587) (320,863) (11,476) 490,806

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 19,012 – (318) (1,482) (228) 16,984
Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 812 – (27) (11) (4) 770
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 314,761 – (46) (31,058) (1,753) 281,904
Total off-balance sheet 334,585 – (391) (32,551) (1,985) 299,658

Total 1,383,199 (190,882) (34,978) (353,414) (13,461) 790,464

140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

Maximum
exposure

£m

Netting
and set-off

£m

Collateral
Risk transfer

£m
Net exposure

£m
Cash

£m
Non-cash

£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 – – – – 102,353
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,467 – – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 38,789 – – – – 38,789
Traded loans 2,975 – – (270) – 2,705
Total trading portfolio assets 41,764 – – (270) – 41,494
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 10,519 – (17) (4,107) (432) 5,963
Debt securities 70 – – – – 70
Reverse repurchase agreements 63,162 – (688) (62,233) – 241
Other financial assets 262 – – – – 262
Total financial assets designated at fair value 74,013 – (705) (66,340) (432) 6,536
Derivative financial instruments 346,626 (273,602) (41,641) (8,282) (5,205) 17,896
Loans and advances to banks 43,251 – (4) (4,896) (22) 38,329
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 144,765 – (184) (143,912) – 669
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 57,808 – (235) (5,258) (95) 52,220
Corporate loans 190,211 (8,622) (320) (52,029) (5,087) 124,153
Total loans and advances to customers 392,784 (8,622) (739) (201,199) (5,182) 177,042
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 – (79) (13,242) – 133
Financial investments – debt securities 62,879 – – (533) (1,286) 61,060
Other assets 1,205 – – – – 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 1,079,796 (282,224) (43,168) (294,762) (12,127) 447,515

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 19,908 – (247) (1,403) (130) 18,128
Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 1,005 – (24) (18) (3) 960
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 302,681 – (321) (26,548) (1,704) 274,108
Total off-balance sheet 323,594 – (592) (27,969) (1,837) 293,196

Total 1,403,390 (282,224) (43,760) (322,731) (13,964) 740,711

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 141

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

The Group's approach to management and representation of credit quality
Asset credit quality
All loans and advances are categorised as either ‘neither past due nor impaired', ‘past due but not impaired', or ‘past due and impaired', which 
includes restructured loans. For the purposes of the disclosures in the balance sheet credit quality section below and the analysis of loans and 
advances and impairment section (page 156):
■■ loans neither past due nor impaired consist predominantly of wholesale and retail loans that are performing. These loans, although unimpaired 

may carry an unidentified impairment
■■ a loan is considered past due and classified as ‘Higher risk' when the borrower has failed to make a payment when due under the terms 

of the loan contract
■■ loans on forbearance programmes, as defined on page 153, are categorised as ‘Higher risk'
■■ the impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective 

impairment.

The Group uses the following internal measures to determine credit quality for loans that are performing:

Default Grade

Wholesale lending 
Probability of

default
Credit Quality

Description
1-3 0.0-0.05% Strong
4-5  0.05-0.15%
6-8  0.15-0.30%
9-11  0.30-0.60%
12-14 0.60-2.15% Satisfactory
15-19  2.15-11.35%
20-21 11.35%+ Higher Risk

For retail clients, a range of analytical tools is used to derive the probability of default of clients at inception and on an ongoing basis.

For loans that are performing, these descriptions can be summarised as follows:

Strong: there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.

Satisfactory: while there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may 
not be collateralised, or may relate to unsecured retail facilities. At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully 
monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value, and 
unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.

Higher risk: there is concern over the obligor's ability to make payments when due. However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency. 
There may also be doubts over the value of collateral or security provided. However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments 
when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.

Loans that are past due are monitored closely, with impairment allowances raised as appropriate and in line with the Group's impairment policies. 
These loans are all considered higher risk for the purpose of this analysis of credit quality.

Debt securities
For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer. Most listed 
and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies. The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poor's, 
Fitch or Moody's. Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.

Balance sheet credit quality
The following tables present the credit quality of Group assets exposed to credit risk. 

Overview
As at 31 December 2017, the ratio of the Group's assets classified as strong, remained broadly stable at 89% (2016: 86%) of total assets exposed 
to credit risk. 

Further analysis of debt securities by issuer and issuer type and netting and collateral arrangements on derivative financial instruments is 
presented on pages 157 and 158 respectively.

142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

Strong
(including

investment
grade)

£m

Satisfactory
(BB+ to B)

£m

Higher risk
(B- and
below)

£m

Maximum
exposure to

credit risk
£m

Strong
(including

investment
grade)

%

Satisfactory
(BB+ to B)

%

Higher risk
(B- and
below)

%

Maximum
exposure to

credit risk
%

Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 – – 171,082  100  –    –    100 
Items in the course of collection from 
other banks 2,088 56 9 2,153  97  3  –    100 
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 48,489 2,085 626 51,200  95  4  1  100 
Traded loans 1,432 1,189 519 3,140  45  38  17  100 
Total trading portfolio assets 49,921 3,274 1,145 54,340  92  6  2  100 
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 9,457 817 763 11,037  86  7  7  100 
Debt securities  –   15  –   15  –    100  –    100 
Reverse repurchase agreements 82,263 17,692 85 100,040  82  18  –    100 
Other financial assets 482 37  –   519  93  7  –    100 
Total financial assets designated at fair value 92,202 18,561 848 111,611  82  17  1  100 
Derivative financial instruments 229,262  7,863 544 237,669  96  4  –    100 
Loans and advances to banks 34,590 926 147 35,663  97  3  –    100 
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 135,576 5,781 5,645 147,002  92  4  4  100 
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 26,026 24,801 4,940 55,767  47  44  9  100 
Corporate loans 113,505 36,786 12,492 162,783  70  22  8  100 
Total loans and advances to customers 275,107 67,368 23,077 365,552  76  18  6  100 
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 11,430 1,101 15 12,546  91  9  –    100 
Financial investments – debt securities 57,107 18 4 57,129  100  –    –    100 
Other assets 482 355 32 869  55  41  4  100 
Total assets 923,271 99,522 25,821 1,048,614  89  9  2  100 

Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

Strong
(including

investment
grade)

£m

Satisfactory
(BB+ to B)

£m

Higher risk
(B- and
below)

£m

Maximum
exposure to

credit risk
£m

Strong
(including

investment
grade)

%

Satisfactory
(BB+ to B)

%

Higher risk
(B- and
below)

%

Maximum
exposure to

credit risk
%

Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 – – 102,353 100 – – 100
Items in the course of collection from 
other banks 1,328 130 9 1,467 91 9 – 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 37,037 1,344 408 38,789 96 3 1 100
Traded loans 594 1,977 404 2,975 20 66 14 100
Total trading portfolio assets 37,631 3,321 812 41,764 90 8 2 100
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 9,692 533 294 10,519 92 5 3 100
Debt securities 59 11 – 70 84 16 – 100
Reverse repurchase agreements 53,151 9,999 12 63,162 84 16 – 100
Other financial assets 244 18 – 262 93 7 – 100
Total financial assets designated at fair value 63,146 10,561 306 74,013 85 14 1 100
Derivative financial instruments 330,737 14,963 926 346,626 95 5 – 100
Loans and advances to banks 39,159 3,830 262 43,251 91 9 – 100
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 136,922 2,589 5,254 144,765 95 1 4 100
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 5,343 50,685 1,780 57,808 9 88 3 100
Corporate loans 140,414 37,170 12,627 190,211 74 19 7 100
Total loans and advances to customers 282,679 90,444 19,661 392,784 72 23 5 100
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 9,364 4,090 – 13,454 70 30 – 100
Financial investments – debt securities 62,842 30 7 62,879 100 – – 100
Other assets 1,085 117 3 1,205 90 10 – 100
Total assets 930,324 127,486 21,986 1,079,796 86 12 2 100

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 143

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Analysis of the concentration of credit risk
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are located in a geographical region or are engaged in similar activities 
and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in 
economic or other conditions. The Group implements limits on concentrations in order to mitigate the risk. The analyses of credit risk 
concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged. Further 
detail on the Group's policies with regard to managing concentration risk is presented on page 149 of Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Geographic concentrations
As at 31 December 2017, the geographic concentration of the Group's assets remained broadly consistent with 2016. Exposure is concentrated in 
the UK 42% (2016: 41%), in the Americas 33% (2016: 33%) and Europe 21% (2016: 21%). 

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and
Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 53,068 57,179 56,034 63 4,738 171,082
Items in the course of collection from other banks 987 1,166 –   –   –   2,153
Trading portfolio assets 10,603 13,620 25,680 473 3,964 54,340
Financial assets designated at fair value 33,922 23,725 46,288 1,611 6,065 111,611
Derivative financial instruments 81,656 81,566 57,858 2,792 13,797 237,669
Loans and advances to banks 10,251 11,847 8,044 1,714 3,807 35,663
Loans and advances to customers 253,702 39,687 63,246 2,541 6,376 365,552
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 203 375 10,521 32 1,415 12,546
Financial investments – debt securities 17,471 23,598 14,110 114 1,836 57,129
Other assets 592 13 148 33 83 869
Total on-balance sheet 462,455 252,776 281,929 9,373 42,081 1,048,614

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 7,603 3,039 6,708 529 1,133 19,012
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 800 5 –   7 –   812
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 105,112 36,079 168,003 1,601 3,966 314,761
Total off-balance sheet 113,515 39,123 174,711 2,137 5,099 334,585
Total 575,970 291,899 456,640 11,510 47,180 1,383,199

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and
Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 30,485 40,439 24,859 77 6,493 102,353
Items in the course of collection from other banks 969 498 – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets 8,981 9,171 19,848 435 3,329 41,764
Financial assets designated at fair value 25,821 10,244 33,181 733 4,034 74,013
Derivative financial instruments 108,559 107,337 105,129 1,493 24,108 346,626
Loans and advances to banks 7,458 12,674 16,894 1,778 4,447 43,251
Loans and advances to customers 253,752 47,050 81,045 3,089 7,848 392,784
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 218 309 11,439 92 1,396 13,454
Financial investments – debt securities 18,126 27,763 12,030 251 4,709 62,879
Other assets 987 – 137 10 71 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 455,356 255,485 304,562 7,958 56,435 1,079,796

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 8,268 3,275 6,910 702 753 19,908
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 915 9 – 40 41 1,005
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 106,427 35,476 156,077 1,694 3,007 302,681
Total off-balance sheet 115,610 38,760 162,987 2,436 3,801 323,594
Total 570,966 294,245 467,549 10,394 60,236 1,403,390

144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Industry concentrations
The concentration of the Group's assets by industry remained broadly consistent year on year. As at 31 December 2017, total assets concentrated 
towards banks and other financial institutions was 36% (2016: 43%), predominantly within derivative financial instruments. The proportion of the 
overall balance concentrated towards governments and central banks increased to 20% (2016: 14%) and towards home loans remained stable at 
11% (2016: 11%). 

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 2017
Banks

£m

Other
financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Const-
ruction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and

central
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail
distribu-
tion and

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
unsecured
loans and 

other
personal 

lending
£m

Other
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at 
central banks –   –   –   –   171,082 –   –   –   –   –   –   171,082
Items in the course of 
collection from other 
banks 2,153 –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   2,153
Trading portfolio assets 4,682 10,672 3,311 807 26,030 3,900 598 3,324 128 –   888 54,340
Financial assets 
designated at fair value 21,468 78,506 38 4,666 4,812 2 3 2,083 28 –   5 111,611
Derivative financial 
instruments 126,248 87,272 2,383 2,103 5,811 8,179 576 2,972 –   –   2,125 237,669
Loans and advances to 
banks 27,780 –   –   –   7,883 –   –   –   –   –   –   35,663
Loans and advances to 
customers –   74,923 9,249 23,706 9,433 6,104 12,450 20,483 147,002 54,205 7,997 365,552
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 7,241 4,844 –   153 307 –   –   1 –   –   –   12,546
Financial investments 
– debt securities 10,146 1,379 –   –   44,827 103 –   674 –   –   –   57,129
Other assets 147 701 –   –   21 –   –   –   –   –   –   869
Total on-balance sheet 199,865 258,297 14,981 31,435 270,206 18,288 13,627 29,537 147,158 54,205 11,015 1,048,614
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 1,572 3,556 3,236 675 8 2,605 969 4,947 4 389 1,051 19,012
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 524 –   192 –   –   –   71 23 –   –   2 812
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 1,026 31,427 37,913 12,956 384 31,702 14,436 34,392 10,785 126,169 13,571 314,761
Total off-balance sheet 3,122 34,983 41,341 13,631 392 34,307 15,476 39,362 10,789 126,558 14,624 334,585
Total 202,987 293,280 56,322 45,066 270,598 52,595 29,103 68,899 157,947 180,763 25,639 1,383,199

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 145

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 2016
Banks

£m

Other
financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Const-
ruction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and

central
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail
distribu-
tion and

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
unsecured
loans and 

other
personal 

lending
£m

Other
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at 
central banks –   –   –   –   102,353 –   –   –   –   –   –   102,353
Items in the course of 
collection from other 
banks 1,467 –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   1,467
Trading portfolio assets 2,231 7,998 1,625 565 21,047 3,733 324 2,972 257 –   1,012 41,764
Financial assets 
designated at fair value 14,714 49,783 3 5,699 856 5 33 2,811 33 2 74 74,013
Derivative financial 
instruments 182,664 139,066 2,913 3,488 6,547 4,585 810 3,392 –   –   3,161 346,626
Loans and advances to 
banks 38,932 –   –   –   4,319 –   –   –   –   –   –   43,251
Loans and advances to 
customers –   91,812 12,337 24,200 12,028 7,384 12,967 21,838 144,765 56,730 8,723 392,784
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 2,596 10,568 –   38 252 –   – – –   –   –   13,454
Financial investments 
– debt securities 12,842 4,877 – – 44,263 – 43 807 –   –   47 62,879
Other assets 975 205 –   –   25 –   –   –   –   –   – 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 256,421 304,309 16,878 33,990 191,690 15,707 14,177 31,820 145,055 56,732 13,017 1,079,796
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 1,484 4,232 3,387 707 8 2,649 1,032 4,847 40 531 991 19,908
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 433 – 377 – – – 157 38 –   – – 1,005
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 1,021 29,329 38,829 11,876 400 29,699 14,741 26,359 9,610 126,708 14,109 302,681
Total off-balance sheet 2,938 33,561 42,593 12,583 408 32,348 15,930 31,244 9,650 127,239 15,100 323,594
Total 259,359 337,870 59,471 46,573 192,098 48,055 30,107 63,064 154,705 183,971 28,117 1,403,390

146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Loans and advances to customers and banks
As the principal source of credit risk to the Group, loans and advances to customers and banks is analysed in detail below:

Analysis of loans and advances and impairment to customers and banks

As at 31 December 2017

Gross
L&A
£m

Impairment
allowance

£m

L&A net of
impairment

£m

Credit risk
loans

£m

CRLs % of
gross L&A

%

Loan
impairment

chargesa
£m

Loan loss
rates 

bps
Barclays UK 159,397 1,649 157,748 1,950 1.2 764 48
Barclays International 30,775 1,542 29,233 1,275 4.1 1,285 418
Head Office 9,333 296 9,037 710 7.6 16 17
Barclays Non-Coreb – – – – – 30 –
Total Group retail 199,505 3,487 196,018 3,935 2.0 2,095 105
Barclays UK 28,960 190 28,770 432 1.5 19 7
Barclays International 170,299 862 169,437 1,421 0.8 219 13
Head Office 7,103 113 6,990 206 2.9 1 1
Barclays Non-Coreb – – – – – (1) –
Total Group wholesale 206,362 1,165 205,197 2,059 1.0 238 12
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 405,867 4,652 401,215 5,994 1.5 2,333 57
Traded loans 3,140 n/a 3,140 n/a
Loans and advances designated at fair value 11,037 n/a 11,037 n/a
Loans and advances held at fair value 14,177 n/a 14,177 n/a
Total loans and advances 420,044 4,652 415,392 5,994

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 155,729 1,519 154,210 2,044 1.3 866 56
Barclays International 33,485 1,492 31,993 1,249 3.7 1,085 324
Barclays Non-Core 10,319 385 9,934 838 8.1 102 99
Total Group retail 199,533 3,396 196,137 4,131 2.1 2,053 103
Barclays UK 15,204 282 14,922 591 3.9 30 20
Barclays International 180,102 748 179,354 1,470 0.8 258 14
Head Office 4,410 – 4,410 – – – –
Barclays Non-Core 41,406 194 41,212 299 0.7 11 3
Total Group wholesale 241,122 1,224 239,898 2,360 1.0 299 12
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 440,655 4,620 436,035 6,491 1.5 2,352 53
Traded loans 2,975 n/a 2,975 n/a
Loans and advances designated at fair value 10,519 n/a 10,519 n/a
Loans and advances held at fair value 13,494 n/a 13,494 n/a
Total loans and advances 454,149 4,620 449,529 6,491

Notes
a Excluding impairment charges on available for sale investments and reverse repurchase agreements.
b Barclays Non-Core represents charges for the six months ended 30 June 2017, primarily relating to Italian mortgages transferred into Head Office on 1 July 2017.

Total loans and advances decreased by £34.1bn to £415.4bn, including a net £12.7bn decrease in cash collateral and settlement balances 
and a £21.4bn decrease in other lending, primarily in Corporate and Investment Bank.

Credit risk loans (CRLs) decreased to £6.0bn (2016: £6.5bn) and the ratio of CRLs to gross loans and advances remained stable at 1.5% 
(2016: 1.5%). Loan impairment charges decreased £19m to £2,333m. Overall, this resulted in an increase of 4bps in the loan loss rate to 57bps.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 147

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types
This section provides an analysis of principal portfolios and businesses in the retail segments. In particular, home loans, credit cards and 
unsecured loans.

Secured home loans
The UK home loans portfolio comprises first lien home loans and accounts for 90% (2016: 89%) of the Group's total home loan balances.

Home loans principal portfoliosa
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2017 2016
Gross loans and advances (£m) 132,132 129,136
90 day arrears rate, excluding recovery book (%) 0.1 0.2
Non-performing proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.4 0.6
Annualised gross charge-off rates (%) 0.2 0.3
Recovery book proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.3 0.4
Recovery book impairment coverage ratio (%) 11.2 9.1

Note
a Gross loans and advances include loans and advances to customers and banks. Risk metrics based on exposures to customers only.

Portfolio performance remained steady reflecting the continuing low base rate environment and stable economic conditions. The non-performing 
proportion of outstanding balances decreased due to an improved performance and a reduction in repossession stock. The recovery book 
impairment coverage ratio increased driven by a reduction in the number of customers entering recoveries, reflecting lower entries into collections 
and better customer payments rates from those in collections.

Within the UK home loans portfolio:
■■ owner-occupied interest-only home loans comprised 28% (2016: 31%) of total balances. The decrease was driven by a greater attrition 

rate compared to new business flow. The average balance weighted LTV on these loans reduced to 39.7% (2016: 41.7%) primarily driven 
by increases in the House Price Index (HPI) across core regions and the 90 day arrears rate excluding recovery book remained steady at 
0.3% (2016: 0.2%) 

■■ buy-to-let home loans comprised 11% (2016: 9%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV increased to 53.7% (2016: 52.6%), 
and the 90 day arrears rate excluding recovery book remained steady at 0.1% (2016: 0.1%).

Home loans principal portfolios – distribution of balances by LTVa

Distribution of 
balances

Impairment coverage 
ratio

Non-performing 
proportion of 

outstanding balances

Non-performing 
balances impairment 

coverage ratio

Recovery book 
proportion of 

outstanding balances

Recovery book 
impairment coverage 

ratio

As at 31 December
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
Barclays UK
<=75% 91.1 91.8 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.6 4.3 4.2 0.2 0.4 7.5 5.9
>75% and <=80% 4.1 3.5 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.6 18.6 17.1 0.3 0.4 28.0 22.1
>80% and <=85% 2.6 2.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.8 16.4 20.4 0.2 0.6 27.8 25.0
>85% and <=90% 1.2 1.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.7 23.8 23.0 0.3 0.6 30.7 25.4
>90% and <=95% 0.6 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.9 1.1 28.7 28.3 0.6 0.8 38.9 33.7
>95% and <=100% 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.7 1.2 1.9 25.6 23.4 0.9 1.5 27.7 27.0
>100% 0.2 0.2 4.2 3.1 6.7 5.7 42.0 38.6 5.9 5.0 47.2 40.9

Note
a Portfolio marked to market based on the most updated valuation including recovery book balances. Updated valuations reflect the application of the latest HPI available as at 

31 December 2017.

Home loans principal portfolios – Average LTV
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2017 2016
Portfolio marked to market LTV (%):
Balance weighted 47.6 47.7
Valuation weighted 35.2 35.6
Performing balances (%):
Balance weighted 47.6 47.3
Valuation weighted 35.6 35.5
Non-performing balances (%):
Balance weighted 49.8 52.5
Valuation weighted 39.1 41.7
For >100% LTVs:
Balances (£m) 215 239
Marked to market collateral (£m) 188 210
Average LTV: balance weighted (%) 127.7 118.4
Average LTV: valuation weighted (%) 118.6 113.1
% of balances in recovery book 5.9 5.0

Balance pay down coupled with benefits from the HPI increase resulted in a 10% reduction in home loans that have LTV >100% to £215m (2016: £239m).

148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Home loans principal portfolios – new lending
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2017 2016
New bookings (£m) 22,665 19,885
New mortgages proportion above 85% LTV (%) 6.0 8.6
Average LTV on new mortgages: balance weighted (%) 63.8 63.4
Average LTV on new mortgages: valuation weighted (%) 56.0 54.4

Barclays UK: New lending during 2017 increased by 14%, reflecting heightened market activity while maintaining a steady risk profile. 
Average balance weighted LTV on new lending remained broadly stable at 63.8% (2016: 63.4%).

Head Office: Italian home loans of £9.2bn (2016: £10.0bn) are secured on residential property with an average balance weighted marked to 
market LTV of 61.0% (2016: 61.8%) and CRL coverage of 41% (2016: 36%). 90 day arrears and gross charge-off rates remained stable at 1.4% 
(2016: 1.2%) and 0.8% (2016: 0.8%) respectively while the CRL book coverage ratio increased, as a result of an update in the collateral valuation 
for accounts in the recovery book.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending
The principal portfolios listed below accounted for 87% (2016: 88%) of the Group's total credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending principal portfolios

Gross loans 
and 

advancesa
£m

30 day 
arrears, 

excluding 
recovery 

book
%

90 day 
arrears, 

excluding 
recovery 

book
%

Annualised 
gross 

charge-off 
rate

%

Recovery 
book 

proportion of 
outstanding 

balances
%

Recovery 
book 

impairment 
coverage 

ratio
%

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK
UK cardsb 17,686 1.8 0.8 5.0 3.4 80.5
UK personal loans 6,255 2.5 1.2 3.3 4.7 77.2
Barclays International
US cardsb 21,350 2.6 1.3 5.0 2.8 82.9
Barclays Partner Finance 3,814 1.3 0.5 2.6 2.4 78.1
Germany cards 1,976 2.5 1.0 3.8 2.7 78.0

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK
UK cardsb 17,833 1.9 0.9 5.5 3.0 83.8
UK personal loans 6,076 2.1 0.9 3.1 4.7 77.2
Barclays International
US cardsb 23,915 2.6 1.3 4.5 2.4 83.6
Barclays Partner Finance 4,041 1.5 0.6 2.5 2.6 81.5
Germany cards 1,812 2.6 1.0 3.7 2.7 79.0

Notes
a Gross loans and advances includes loans and advances to customers and banks. Risk metrics based on exposures to customers.
b For UK and US cards, outstanding recovery book balances for acquired portfolios recognised at fair value (which have no related impairment allowance) have been excluded from 

the recovery book impairment coverage ratio. Losses have been recognised where related to additional spend from acquired accounts in the period post acquisition.

UK cards: The annualised gross charge-off rate, which was higher in 2016 due to accelerated asset sales, normalised in 2017 to 5.0% (2016: 5.5%) 
in line with expectations. The recovery book proportion of outstanding balances increased, reflecting accelerated charge-off of non-compliant 
forbearance plans. However, the recovery book impairment coverage ratio decreased, reflecting the one time asset sale impact of accounts with 
lower recovery expectations.

UK personal loans: The 30 day arrears rate increased to 2.5% (2016: 2.1%) and the 90 day arrears rate increased to 1.2% (2016: 0.9%) reflecting 
increased flow into delinquency from some 2016 bookings due to higher incidences of fraud and poorer performance on customers with multiple 
loans, coupled with a weaker performance in collections operations. Both the recovery book proportion of outstanding balances of 4.7% 
(2016: 4.7%) and the recovery book impairment coverage ratio of 77.2% (2016: 77.2%) remained stable.

US cards: The annualised gross charge-off rate increased to 5.0% (2016: 4.5%) broadly in line with trends across the industry and also reflecting 
a one-off asset sale contributing to a drop in outstanding balances. As a result, recovery book proportion of outstanding balances increased to 
2.8% (2016: 2.4%).

Barclays Partner Finance: Portfolio arrears and the annualised gross charge-off rate remained broadly stable during 2017.

Germany cards: 90 day arrears and the annualised gross charge-off rate remained stable, while the recovery book coverage ratio improved 
reflecting better recoveries. In addition, Germany consumer loans increased to £1.4bn (2016: £1.2bn).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 149

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost
Analysis of wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost

Gross
L&A
£m

Impairment
allowance

£m

L&A net of
impairment

£m

Credit risk
loans

£m

CRLs % of
gross L&A

%

Loan
impairment

charges
£m

Loan loss
rates

bps
As at 31 December 2017
Banks 27,520 – 27,520 – – – –
Other financial institutions 73,849 20 73,829 108 0.1 2 –
Manufacturing 9,193 64 9,129 162 1.8 (46) (50)
Construction 3,180 34 3,146 21 0.7 (6) (19)
Property 20,353 61 20,292 256 1.3 (27) (13)
Government and central bank 16,403 1 16,402 35 0.2 – –
Energy and water 6,214 124 6,090 235 3.8 (21) (34)
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,497 217 12,280 253 2.0 53 42
Business and other services 20,147 505 19,642 361 1.8 264 131
Home loansa 5,598 48 5,550 268 4.8 11 20
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lendinga 4,452 33 4,419 272 6.1 (4) (9)
Other 6,956 58 6,898 88 1.3 12 17
Total wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 206,362 1,165 205,197 2,059 1.0 238 12

As at 31 December 2016
Banks 35,979 – 35,979 – – – –
Other financial institutions 91,673 14 91,659 89 0.1 6 1
Manufacturing 12,373 130 12,243 226 1.8 37 30
Construction 3,418 40 3,378 58 1.7 5 15
Property 20,541 137 20,404 464 2.3 27 13
Government and central bank 15,847 – 15,847 – – – –
Energy and water 7,569 181 7,388 348 4.6 102 135
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,995 169 12,826 258 2.0 38 29
Business and other services 21,210 284 20,926 331 1.6 54 25
Home loansa 5,497 48 5,449 190 3.5 9 16
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lendinga 5,329 129 5,200 207 3.9 6 11
Other 8,691 92 8,599 189 2.2 15 17
Total wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 241,122 1,224 239,898 2,360 1.0 299 12

Note  
a Included in the above analysis are Wealth and Private Banking exposures measured on an individual customer exposure basis. 

Wholesale loans and advances decreased £34.8bn to £206.4bn (2016: £241.1bn), including a net £12.7bn decrease in settlement and cash 
collateral balances and a £22.1bn decrease in other lending, mainly in the Corporate and Investment Bank. 

CRLs decreased £0.3bn to £2.1bn (2016: £2.4bn), primarily in the property and energy sectors, with fewer large name exposures arising this year 
compared to 2016.

Loan impairment charges decreased to £238m (2016: £299m), reflecting the trend in CRLs. The loan loss rate remained stable at 12bps 
(2016: 12bps).

150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Analysis of problem loans
Loans that are past due or assessed as impaired within this section are reflected in the balance sheet credit quality tables on page 143 as being 
Higher risk.

Age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not impaired 
The following table presents an age analysis of gross loans and advances that are past due but not impaired. Loans that are past due but not 
impaired consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due but individually assessed as not being impaired. These loans although 
individually assessed as unimpaired may carry an unidentified impairment provision.

Loans and advances past due but not impaired (audited)
Past due 

up to 1 
month

£m

Past due
 1-2

months
£m

Past due
2-3

months
£m

Past due 
3-6

months
£m

Past due
6 months
and over

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Loans and advances designated at fair value 653 – 20 – 10 683
Home loans 3 1 – – 22 26
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending – – 12 31 66 109
Corporate loans 6,272 277 129 85 98 6,861
Total 6,928 278 161 116 196 7,679

As at 31 December 2016
Loans and advances designated at fair value 29 8 18 – 16 71
Home loans 1 – – 33 31 65
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 2 – 2 11 77 92
Corporate loans 6,962 1,235 149 178 354 8,878
Total 6,994 1,243 169 222 478 9,106

Loans and advances past due but not impaired decreased by £1.4bn to £7.7bn, mainly due to fewer large corporate loans past due 1-2 months.

Analysis of loans and advances assessed as impaired 
The following table presents an analysis of gross loans and advances into those collectively or individually assessed as impaired. The table includes 
an age analysis for loans and advances collectively assessed as impaired.

Loans that are collectively assessed as impaired consist predominantly of retail loans that are one day or more past due for which a collective 
allowance is raised. Wholesale loans that are past due, individually assessed as unimpaired, but which carry an unidentified impairment provision, 
are excluded from this category.

Loans that are individually assessed as impaired consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due and for which an individual allowance 
has been raised.

Home loans, unsecured loans and credit card receivables that are subject to forbearance in the retail portfolios are included within the collectively 
assessed for impairment category. Where wholesale loans under forbearance have been impaired, these form part of individually assessed 
impaired loans.

Loans and advances assessed as impaired (audited)
Past due

up to
1 month

£m

Past due
1-2 months

£m

Past due
2-3 months

£m

Past due 
3-6 months

£m

Past due
6 months
and over

£m

Total 
collectively 

assessed 
£m

Individually
assessed for
impairment

£m
Total 

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Home loans 2,622 465 200 304 477 4,068 922 4,990
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 989 344 245 511 1,808 3,897 302 4,199
Corporate loans 546 34 20 28 85 713 1,384 2,097
Total 4,157 843 465 843 2,370 8,678 2,608 11,286

As at 31 December 2016
Home loans 2,866 795 201 298 452 4,612 820 5,432
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 1,135 354 250 516 1,702 3,957 492 4,449
Corporate loans 288 53 35 72 131 579 1,580 2,159
Total 4,289 1,202 486 886 2,285 9,148 2,892 12,040

Loans and advances assessed as impaired decreased by £0.8bn to £11.3bn, reflecting a stable or generally improving trend in the ageing of 
impaired loans across the Group.  

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 151

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Potential credit risk loans (PCRLs) and coverage ratios
The Group reports potentially and actually impaired loans as PCRLs. PCRLs comprise two categories of loans: credit risk loans (CRLs) and 
potential problem loans (PPLs). 

CRLs comprise three classes of loans: 
■■ impaired loans: comprises loans where an individually identified impairment allowance has been raised. This category also includes all 

Retail loans that have been transferred to a recovery book. See page 153 for further analysis of impaired loans 
■■ accruing past due 90 days or more: comprises loans that are 90 days or more past due with respect to principal or interest 
■■ restructured loans: comprises loans not included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor's financial difficulties, a 

concession has been granted to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered.  For information on restructured loans refer to disclosures 
on forbearance on pages 153 to 156.

PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue to 
comply with such terms in the near future. If the credit quality of a wholesale loan on a watch list deteriorates to the highest category, or a retail 
loan deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 (typically when past due 60 to 90 days), consideration is given to including it within the PPL category.

Potential credit risk loans and coverage ratios by business

As at 31 December

CRLs PPLs PCRLs
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Barclays UK 1,950 2,044 266 310 2,216 2,354
Barclays International 1,275 1,249 198 192 1,473 1,441
Head Office 710 – 9 – 719 –
Barclays Non-Core – 838 – 11 – 849
Total retail 3,935 4,131 473 513 4,408 4,644

Barclays UK 432 591 168 94 600 685
Barclays International 1,421 1,470 763 1,530 2,184 3,000
Head Office 206 – 22 – 228 –
Barclays Non-Core – 299 – 59 – 358
Total wholesale 2,059 2,360 953 1,683 3,012 4,043
Group total 5,994 6,491 1,426 2,196 7,420 8,687

As at 31 December

Impairment allowance CRL coverage PCRL coverage
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

%
2016

%
2017

%
2016

%
Barclays UK 1,649 1,519 84.6 74.3 74.4 64.5
Barclays International 1,542 1,492 120.9 119.5 104.7 103.5
Head Office 296 – 41.7 – 41.2 –
Barclays Non-Core – 385 – 45.9 – 45.3
Total retail 3,487 3,396 88.6 82.2 79.1 73.1

Barclays UK 190 282 44.0 47.7 31.7 41.2
Barclays International 862 748 60.7 50.9 39.5 24.9
Head Office 113 – 54.9 – 49.6 –
Barclays Non-Core – 194 – 64.9 – 54.2
Total wholesale 1,165 1,224 56.6 51.9 38.7 30.3
Group total 4,652 4,620 77.6 71.2 62.7 53.2

CRLs decreased to £6.0bn (2016: £6.5bn) with the Group's CRL coverage ratio increasing to 77.6% (2016: 71.2%) mainly within retail portfolios. 
The CRL coverage ratio for retail portfolios increased to 88.6% (2016: 82.2%) primarily due to movements in Barclays UK.

PPLs decreased to £1.4bn (2016: £2.2bn) primarily within Barclays International. The decrease was driven by Corporate and Investment Bank 
where the volume of PPL cases has decreased significantly.

152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Impaired loans
The following table represents an analysis of impaired loans in line with the disclosure recommended by the Enhanced Disclosure Taskforce. 
Impaired loans are a subcomponent of CRLs and comprise loans where an individually identified impairment allowance has been raised. 
This category also includes all retail loans that have been transferred to a recovery book. For the majority of products, transfer to a recovery 
unit occurs for loans that are past due over six months unless a forbearance agreement is agreed. Earlier transfer points may occur depending 
on specific circumstances. Impaired loans may include loans that are still performing, fully collateralised loans or where indebtedness has 
already been written down to the expected realisable value.

Movement in impaired loans

At beginning 
of year

£m

Classified 
as impaired 

during 
the year

£m

Transferred 
to not 

impaired 
during 

the year
£m

Repayments
£m

Amounts 
written off

£m

Acquisitions 
and 

disposals
£m

Exchange 
and other 

adjustments
£m

Balance 
at 

31 December
£m

2017
Home loans 1,140 247 (203) (149) (26) – 16 1,025
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 1,704 1,878 (66) (214) (1,467) – 27 1,862
Corporate loans 1,770 1,065 (271) (664) (202) – (181) 1,517
Total impaired loans 4,614 3,190 (540) (1,027) (1,695) – (138) 4,404

       
2016        
Home loans 1,337 308 (150) (171) (19) – (165) 1,140
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 2,200 1,761 (17) (136) (1,605) (92) (407) 1,704
Corporate loans 2,098 984 (427) (220) (331) (15) (319) 1,770
Total impaired loans 5,635 3,053 (594) (527) (1,955) (107) (891) 4,614

Forbearance
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards a debtor that is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting their financial 
commitments (‘financial difficulties').

Analysis of forbearance programmes

As at 31 December

Balances Impairment allowance Impairment coverage
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

%
2016

%
Barclays UK 847 926 226 237 26.7 25.6
Barclays International 210 243 86 57 41.0 23.5
Head Office 186 – 11 – 5.9 –
Barclays Non-Core – 211 – 9 – 4.3
Total retail 1,243 1,380 323 303 26.0 22.0
Barclays UKa 606 589 31 62 5.1 10.5
Barclays Internationala 2,347 2,044 519 257 22.1 12.6
Barclays Non-Core – 269 – 50 – 18.5
Total wholesale 2,953 2,902 550 369 18.6 12.7
Group totalb 4,196 4,282 873 672 20.8 15.7

Notes
a In 2017, certain ESHLA balances were reclassified from Barclays International to Barclays UK reflecting the management of the portfolio.
b Barclays Non-Core retail balances of £186m were reclassified into Head Office and £158m wholesale balances were reclassified into Barclays International. 

Balances on forbearance programmes decreased 2% driven by better portfolio performance. 

Retail balances on forbearance reduced 10% to £1.2bn, reflecting an overall decrease in both Barclays UK and Barclays International portfolios.
■■ Barclays UK: Reduction was driven by UK cards portfolio, where balances on forbearance plans were lower due to an asset sale and application 

of tighter entry criteria. For the UK home loans portfolio the reduction was due to stable economic conditions and reduced forbearance entries.
■■ Barclays International: US cards forbearance balances decreased due to an asset sale of high risk accounts. The increase in impairment 

allowance was driven by updated modelling methodology. 

Wholesale balances on forbearance remained broadly stable at £3.0bn (2016: £2.9bn). Across the principal portfolios, the flow of new cases 
into forbearance during 2017 was offset by a range of repayments and credit improvements where clients returned to the performing book 
and a modest level of write-offs.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 153

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Retail forbearance programmes
Forbearance on the Group's principal retail portfolios in the US and UK is presented below. The principal portfolios account for 71% (2016: 73%) of 
total retail forbearance balances.

Analysis of key portfolios in forbearance programmes
Balances on forbearance programmes Marked 

to market 
LTV of 

forbearance 
balances: 

balance 
weighted

%

Marked 
to market 

LTV of 
forbearance 

balances: 
valuation 
weighted

%

Impairment 
allowances 

marked 
against 

balances on 
forbearance 

programmes
£m

Total 
balances on 
forbearance 

programmes 
coverage 

ratio
%

Total 
£m

% of gross 
retail 

loans and 
advances

%

Of which:

Up-to-date 
£m

Past due of which:

1-90 days 
past due 

£m

91 or 
more days 

past due 
£m

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK
UK home loans 355 0.3 237 79 39 43.2 31.0 4 1.1
UK cards 302 1.7 153 98 51 n/a n/a 179 59.3
UK personal loans 77 1.2 48 21 8 n/a n/a 30 39.0
Barclays International
US cards 148 0.7 107 30 11 n/a n/a 58 39.2

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK
UK home loans 390 0.3 188 149 53 44.7 31.3 3 0.8
UK cards 337 1.9 255 59 23 n/a  n/a 185 54.9
UK personal loans 94 1.5 58 26 10  n/a  n/a 38 40.4
Barclays International
US cards 186 0.8 139 35 12 n/a n/a 38 20.4

■■ UK home loans: Improvement driven by stable economic conditions and a reduction in forbearance entries.
■■ UK cards: Balances on forbearance plans reduced due to an asset sale and tighter entry criteria. The forbearance impairment coverage ratio 

increased due to the inclusion of additional forbearance populations in 2017 which carry higher impairment provision rates.
■■ UK personal loans: Impairment allowance held against forbearance stock decreased in line with the overall forbearance balance and the 

coverage ratio remained relatively stable.
■■ US cards: Balances were lower due to asset sale of high risk accounts while impairment allowance increased due to a change in methodology.

Forbearance by type

As at 31 December

Barclays UK Barclays International
UK home loans UK cards UK personal loans US cards

2017
£m

2016
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Payment concession 94 96 84 45 – – – –
Interest-only conversion 75 84 – – – – – –
Term extension 184 210 – – 8 16 – –
Fully amortising – – – – 54 65 135 97 
Repayment plana – – 96 218 15 13 13 89 
Interest rate concession 2 – 122 74 – – – –
Total 355 390 302 337 77 94 148 186 

Note
a Repayment plan represents a reduction to the minimum payment due requirements and interest rate.

■■ UK cards: The reduction in the Repayment Plan book was driven by a one-time accelerated charge-off of legacy accounts in addition to reduced 
inflow as a result of tighter entry criteria. This reduction was partially offset by the inclusion of new segments following a review of the 
forbearance population to better align with policy.

154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Wholesale forbearance programmes
The tables below detail balance information for wholesale forbearance cases.

Analysis of wholesale balances in forbearance programmesa
Balances on forbearance programmes Impairment 

allowances 
marked 
against 

balances on 
forbearance 

programmes 
£m

Total 
balances on 
forbearance 

programmes 
coverage 

ratio
%

Total 
balances 

£m

% of gross
 wholesale 
loans and
advances

%

Of which:

Performing
balances 

£m

Impaired
up-to-date

balances 
£m

Balances
between 

1 and 90 days 
past due 

£m

Balances 
91 days 
or more 

past due 
£m

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 606 2.1 378 8 89 131 31 5.1
Barclays International 2,347 1.4 1,587 300 57 403 519 22.1
Total 2,953 1.4 1,965 308 146 534 550 18.6

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 589 3.9 187 93 78 231 62 10.5
Barclays International 2,044 1.1 1,285 567 33 159 257 12.6
Barclays Non-Core 269 0.6 57 44 25 143 50 18.6
Total 2,902 1.2 1,529 704 136 533 369 12.7

Note
a In 2017, certain ESHLA balances were reclassified from Barclays International to Barclays UK reflecting the management of the portfolio.

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by exposure class

Corporate
£m

Personal and 
trusts

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 5 – – 5
Restructure: maturity date extension 373 26 – 399
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 297 – – 297
Restructure: payment other than cash 16 – – 16
Change in security 9 – – 9
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 1,477 101 1 1,579
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 474 174 – 648
Total 2,651 301 1 2,953

As at 31 December 2016
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 32 – – 32
Restructure: maturity date extension 411 107 – 518
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 346 1 – 347
Restructure: payment other than cash 10 – – 10
Change in security 7 – – 7
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 1,242 155 – 1,397
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 438 153 – 591
Total 2,486 416 – 2,902

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by business unit

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m

Barclays 
Non-Core

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 3 2 – 5
Restructure: maturity date extension 90 309 – 399
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 199 98 – 297
Restructure: payment other than cash – 16 – 16
Change in security – 9 – 9
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 223 1,356 – 1,579
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 91 557 – 648
Total 606 2,347 – 2,953

As at 31 December 2016
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 3 29 – 32
Restructure: maturity date extension 114 316 88 518
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 180 164 3 347
Restructure: payment other than cash – 10 – 10
Change in security 1 6 – 7
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 132 1,212 53 1,397
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 159 307 125 591
Total 589 2,044 269 2,902

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 155

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

Wholesale forbearance flows in 2017
£m

As at 1 January 2017 2,902
Added to forbearance 2,157
Removed from forbearance (credit improvement) (632)
Fully or partially repaid and other movements (1,277)
Written off/moved to recovery book (197)
As at 31 December 2017 2,953

Impairment
Impairment allowances
Impairment allowances remained stable at £4,652m (2016: £4,620m) during the year.

Movements in allowance for impairment by asset class (audited)

At beginning
of year

£m

Acquisitions
and

disposals
£m

Unwind of
discount

£m

Exchange
and other

adjustments 
£m

Amounts
written off

£m
Recoveries 

£m

Amounts
charged to

income
statement

£m

Balance at
31 December

£m
2017
Home loans 467 – (5) (4) (29) – 29 458
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 3,060 – (43) (223) (2,042) 252 2,051 3,055
Corporate loans 1,093 (5) – (13) (258) 82 240 1,139
Total impairment allowance 4,620 (5) (48) (240) (2,329) 334 2,320 4,652

2016
Home loans 518 (3) (5) (108) (23) – 88 467
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 3,394 (2) (70) (709) (1,806) 296 1,957 3,060
Corporate loans 1,009 – – 81 (364) 69 298 1,093
Total impairment allowance 4,921 (5) (75) (736) (2,193) 365 2,343 4,620

Management adjustments to models for impairment
Management adjustments to models for impairment are applied in order to factor in certain conditions or changes in policy that are not 
incorporated into the relevant impairment models, or to reflect additionally known facts and circumstances at the period end. Adjustments 
typically increase the model derived impairment allowance. Where applicable, management adjustments are reviewed and incorporated into 
future model development.

Management adjustments to models of more than £10m with respect to impairment allowance in our principal portfolios are presented below.

Principal portfolios that have management adjustments greater than £10m

As at 31 December

2017 2016
Total 

management 
adjustments 

to 
impairment 
allowances, 

including 
forbearance

£m

Proportion 
of total 

impairment 
allowances

%

Total 
management 
adjustments 

to 
impairment 
allowances, 

including 
forbearance

£m

Proportion 
of total 

impairment 
allowances

%
Barclays UK
UK cards 49 5 312 34
UK home loans 71 72 70 69
UK business lending 70 31 69 33
Barclays International
Corporate Banking 68 11 71 14
Barclays Partner Finance 37 24 59 37

UK cards: Adoption of new probability of default models resulted in a year on year release of post model adjustments. 

UK home loans: To capture the potential impact from an increase in the house price to earnings ratio, change in the impairment methodology and 
increased coverage on interest-only loans maturing in the next five years.

UK business lending: To align to impairment policy requirements, potential impact from commercial property price deterioration and the 
susceptibility of minimum debt service customers to interest rate rises.

Corporate Banking: Most material adjustment related to the risk associated with the potential of rate rises impacting low interest cover clients.

Barclays Partner Finance: Adoption of new probability of default models resulted in a year on year release of post model adjustments. 

156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Analysis of debt securities
Debt securities include government securities held as part of the Group's treasury management portfolio for liquidity and regulatory purposes, 
and are for use on a continuing basis in the activities of the Group.

The following tables provide an analysis of debt securities held by the Group for trading and investment purposes by issuer type, and where the 
Group held government securities exceeding 10% of shareholders' equity.

Further information on the credit quality of debt securities is presented on pages 142 to 143. 

Debt securities

As at 31 December
2017 2016

£m % £m %
Of which issued by: 
Governments and other public bodies 69,981 64.5 64,852 63.7
Corporate and other issuers 27,955 25.8 28,284 27.8
US agency 7,868 7.3 6,208 6.1
Mortgage and asset backed securities 2,520 2.3 2,372 2.3
Bank and building society certificates of deposit 21 0.1 23 0.1
Total 108,345 100.0 101,739 100.0

Government securities

As at 31 December

2017
Fair value

£m

2016
Fair value

£m
United States 21,570 16,284
United Kingdom 19,475 20,145

Analysis of derivatives 
The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting 
arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.

Derivative assets  (audited)

As at 31 December

2017 2016
Balance 

sheet
assets

£m

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m

Balance 
sheet

assets  
£m

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m
Foreign exchange 54,943 42,117 12,826 79,744 59,040 20,704
Interest rate 153,043 117,559 35,484 228,652 185,723 42,929
Credit derivatives 12,549 9,952 2,597 16,273 12,891 3,382
Equity and stock index 14,698 12,702 1,996 17,089 12,603 4,486
Commodity derivatives 2,436 1,935 501 4,868 3,345 1,523
Total derivative assets 237,669 184,265 53,404 346,626 273,602 73,024
Cash collateral held 33,092 41,641
Net exposure less collateral 20,312 31,383

Derivative asset exposures would be £217bn (2016: £315bn) lower than reported under IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities 
with the same counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral. Similarly, derivative liabilities would be £217bn (2016: £317bn) lower 
reflecting counterparty netting and collateral placed. In addition, non-cash collateral of £6bn (2016: £8bn) was held in respect of derivative assets. 
The Group received collateral from clients in support of over the counter derivative transactions. These transactions are generally undertaken 
under International Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA) agreements governed by either UK or New York law.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 157

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Credit risk

Risk review

The table below sets out the fair value and notional amounts of OTC derivative instruments by type of collateral arrangement.

Derivatives by collateral arrangement
2017 2016

Notional
contract
amount

£m

Fair value Notional
contract
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Unilateral in favour of Barclays
Foreign exchange 18,280 484 (345) 17,713 607 (274)
Interest rate 5,495 868 (26) 6,666 1,017 (60)
Credit derivatives –   –   –   174 3 (2)
Equity and stock index 6 3 –   390 3 (147)
Commodity derivatives 243 –   (9) 753 33 (26)
Total unilateral in favour of Barclays 24,024 1,355 (380) 25,696 1,663 (509)
Unilateral in favour of counterparty
Foreign exchange 21,052 720 (1,851) 20,837 786 (2,549)
Interest rate 74,412 8,458 (9,934) 108,915 3,795 (5,979)
Credit derivatives 283 6 (3) 152 3 (7)
Equity and stock index 1,030 432 (53) 1,121 312 (49)
Commodity derivatives 515 4 (6) 1,231 67 (66)
Total unilateral in favour of counterparty 97,292 9,620 (11,847) 132,256 4,963 (8,650)
Bilateral arrangement
Foreign exchange 4,318,754 48,660 (46,403) 3,772,477 70,464 (68,788)
Interest rate 8,060,574 135,465 (131,334) 7,335,641 187,155 (179,650)
Credit derivatives 404,069 7,337 (5,903) 608,859 11,422 (9,994)
Equity and stock index 144,255 6,178 (9,099) 192,448 6,146 (9,692)
Commodity derivatives 11,801 630 (575) 11,766 1,318 (1,442)
Total bilateral arrangement 12,939,453 198,270 (193,314) 11,921,191 276,505 (269,566)
Uncollateralised derivatives
Foreign exchange 380,823 4,442 (4,256) 363,921 7,490 (6,287)
Interest rate 202,053 4,215 (1,715) 184,362 5,723 (2,459)
Credit derivatives 6,808 252 (327) 5,872 383 (510)
Equity and stock index 16,448 884 (5,917) 13,706 2,558 (3,385)
Commodity derivatives 4,661 60 (266) 16,389 504 (748)
Total uncollateralised derivatives 610,793 9,853 (12,481) 584,250 16,658 (13,389)
Total OTC derivative assets/(liabilities) 13,671,562 219,098 (218,022) 12,663,393 299,789 (292,114)

158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Summary of contents Page
Outlines key measures used to summarise 
the market risk profile of the bank such as 
value at risk (VaR). A distinction is made 
between management and regulatory 
measures.

■■ Market risk overview and summary of performance 160

Provides a Group-wide overview of where 
assets and liabilities on the Group's balance 
sheet are managed within regulatory traded 
and non-traded books.

■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 161

The Group discloses details on management 
measures of market risk. Total management 
VaR includes all trading positions and is 
presented on a diversified basis by risk factor. 

This section also outlines the macroeconomic 
conditions modelled as part of the Group's 
risk management framework.

The Group's regulatory measures of market 
risk under the approved internal models 
approach are also disclosed.

■■ Traded market risk 162
■■ Review of management measures 162

 – The daily average, maximum and minimum values of management VaR 162
 – Business scenario stresses 162

■■ Review of regulatory measures 163
 – Analysis of regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive Risk Measure 163
 – Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolio 163

Risk performance
Market risk

Risk review

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 159

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Market risk

Risk review

Overview of market risk
This section contains key statistics describing 
the market risk profile of the bank. A 
distinction is made between regulatory and 
management measures within the section. 
The market risk management section on 
pages 150 to 157 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 
Report 2017 provides descriptions of these 
metrics:
■■ page 161 provides a view of market risk in 

the context of the Group's balance sheet
■■ page 129 covers the management of market 

risk. Management measures are shown on 
page 162 and regulatory equivalent 
measures are shown on page 163.

Measures of market risk in the 
Group and accounting 
measures
Traded market risk measures such as VaR and 
balance sheet exposure measures have 
fundamental differences:
■■ balance sheet measures show accruals-

based balances or marked to market values 
as at the reporting date

■■ VaR measures also take account of current 
marked to market values, but in addition 
hedging effects between positions are 
considered 

■■ market risk measures are expressed in 
terms of changes in value or volatilities as 
opposed to static values.

For these reasons, it is not possible to present 
direct reconciliations of traded market risk and 
accounting measures. The table ‘Balance 
sheet split by trading and banking books', on 
page 161, helps the reader understand the 
main categories of assets and liabilities 
subject to regulatory market risk measures.

Summary of performance in 
the period
Overall, the Group has maintained a steady 
risk profile:
■■ measures of traded market risk have been 

relatively stable over 2017, characterised by 
a low volatility environment.  

Market risk
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets and 
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

All disclosures in this section (pages 160 to 163) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

Average Management value at risk -10% 
in 2017 at £19m (2016: £21m) remained relatively stable. 

This small reduction was driven by a 25% decrease in average credit risk 
VaR, primarily due to tighter credit spreads.

160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Balance sheet view of trading and banking books
As defined by regulatory rules, a trading book consists of positions held for trading intent or to hedge elements of the trading book. Trading 
intent must be evidenced in the basis of the strategies, policies and procedures set up by the firm to manage the position or portfolio. The table 
below provides a Group-wide overview of where assets and liabilities on the Group's balance sheet are managed within regulatory traded and 
non-traded books.

The balance sheet split by trading book and banking books is shown on an IFRS accounting scope of consolidation. The reconciliation between 
the accounting and regulatory scope of consolidation is shown in table 1 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Balance sheet split by trading and banking books 

As at 31 December 2017

Banking 
booka

£m

Trading 
book

£m
Total

£m
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 – 171,082
Items in course of collection from other banks 2,153 – 2,153
Trading portfolio assets 1,555 112,205 113,760
Financial assets designated at fair value 7,874 108,407 116,281
Derivative financial instruments 924 236,745 237,669
Financial investments 58,916 – 58,916
Loans and advances to banks 32,464 3,199 35,663
Loans and advances to customers 343,771 21,781 365,552
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 12,546 – 12,546
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2,389 – 2,389
Investments in associates and joint ventures 718 – 718
Property, plant and equipment 2,572 – 2,572
Goodwill and intangible assets 7,849 – 7,849
Current tax assets 482 – 482
Deferred tax assets 3,457 – 3,457
Retirement benefit assets 966 – 966
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 1,193 – 1,193
Total assets 650,911 482,337 1,133,248

Deposits from banks 35,337 2,386 37,723
Items in course of collection due to other banks 446 – 446
Customer accounts 415,783 13,338 429,121
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 40,338 – 40,338
Trading portfolio liabilities – 37,351 37,351
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 4,368 169,350 173,718
Derivative financial instruments 389 237,956 238,345
Debt securities in issue 73,314 – 73,314
Subordinated liabilities 23,826 – 23,826
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 8,565 – 8,565
Provisions 3,543 – 3,543
Current tax liabilities 586 – 586
Deferred tax liabilities 44 – 44
Retirement benefit liabilities 312 – 312
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale – – –
Total liabilities 606,851 460,381 1,067,232

Note
a The primary risk factors for banking book assets and liabilities are interest rates and to a lesser extent, foreign exchange rates. Credit spreads and equity prices will also be factors  

where the Group holds debt and equity securities respectively, either as financial assets designated at fair value (see Note 14) or as available for sale (see Note 16) of the financial 
statements.

Included within the trading book are assets and liabilities which are included in the market risk regulatory measures. For more information on 
these measures (VaR, SVaR, IRC and CRM) see the risk management section on page 154 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 161

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Market risk

Risk review

Traded market risk review
Review of management measures
The following disclosures provide details on management measures of market risk. See the risk management section on pages 152 to 153 of 
the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017 for more detail on management measures and the differences when compared to regulatory measures.
The table below shows the total Management VaR on a diversified basis by risk factor. Total Management VaR includes all trading positions in 
CIB and Head Office.

Limits are applied against each risk factor VaR as well as total Management VaR, which are then cascaded further by risk managers to 
each business.

The daily average, maximum and minimum values of management VaRa

Management VaR (95%, one day) (audited) 

For the year ended 31 Decembera

2017 2016
Average

£m
   Highb

£m
   Lowb

£m
Average

£m
Highb

£m
Lowb
£m

Credit risk 12 18 8 16 24 9
Interest rate risk 8 15 4 7 13 4
Equity risk 8 14 4 7 11 4
Basis risk 5 6 3 5 9 3
Spread risk 5 8 3 3 5 2
Foreign exchange risk 3 7 2 3 5 2
Commodity risk 2 3 1 2 4 1
Inflation risk 2 4 1 2 3 2
Diversification effectb (26) n/a n/a (24) n/a n/a
Total management VaR 19 26 14 21 29 13

Notes
a Includes BAGL.
b Diversification effects recognise that forecast losses from different assets or businesses are unlikely to occur concurrently, hence the expected aggregate loss is lower than the 

sum of the expected losses from each area. Historic correlations between losses are taken into account in making these assessments. The high and low VaR figures reported for 
each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low VaR reported as a whole. Consequently a diversification effect balance for the high and low VaR 
figures would not be meaningful and is therefore omitted from the above table.

Management VaR remained relatively stable year on year characterised by a low volatility environment. The year on year reduction in credit risk 
VaR was driven primarily by tighter credit spreads.

Jan 2016

40

Jan 2017 Dec 2017

Group Management VaRa (£m)

Note
a Includes BAGL.

Business scenario stresses
As part of the Group's risk management framework, on a regular basis the performance of the trading business in hypothetical scenarios 
characterised by severe macroeconomic conditions is modelled. Up to seven global scenarios are modelled on a regular basis, for example, 
a sharp deterioration in liquidity, a slowdown in the global economy, global recession, and a sharp increase in economic growth.

In 2017, the scenario analyses showed that the largest market risk related impacts would be due to a severe deterioration in financial liquidity 
and global recession.

162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Review of regulatory measures
The following disclosures provide details on regulatory measures of market risk. See page 154 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017 for more 
detail on regulatory measures and the differences when compared to management measures.
The Group's market risk capital requirement comprises of two elements:
■■ the market risk of trading book positions booked to legal entities are measured under a PRA approved internal models approach, including 

Regulatory VaR, Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR), Incremental Risk Charge (IRC) and Comprehensive Risk Measure (CRM) as required 
■■ the trading book positions that do not meet the conditions for inclusion within the approved internal models approach are calculated using 

standardised rules.

The table below summarises the regulatory market risk measures, under the internal models approach. See Table 76: Market risk own fund 
requirements, on page 97 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017 for a breakdown of capital requirements by approach.

Analysis of Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive Risk Measurea
Year-end

£m
Avg.

£m
Max

£m
Min
£m

As at 31 December 2017
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 28 27 39 19
Regulatory VaR (10-day)b 90 85 123 60
SVaR (1-day) 59 63 105 41
SVaR (10-day)b 186 200 331 130
IRC 188 202 326 142
CRM – 1 2 –

As at 31 December 2016
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 33 26 34 18
Regulatory VaR (10-day)b 105 84 108 57
SVaR (1-day) 65 56 75 34
SVaR (10-day)b 205 178 236 109
IRC 154 155 238 112
CRM 2 5 12 2

Notes
a Includes BAGL.
b The 10 day VaR is based on scaling of 1 day VaR model output since VaR is currently not modelled for a 10 day holding period. More information about Regulatory and Stressed 
VaR methodology is available on page 154 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Overall, there was an increase in IRC in 2017, with no significant movements in other internal model components: 
■■ Regulatory VaR/SVaR: Average VaR/SVaR was broadly unchanged compared to the previous year.
■■ IRC: Increase was mainly driven by positional increases.
■■ CRM: Reduced to zero as the final positions matured in a specific legacy portfolio. 

Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolioa

As at 31 December 2017
Macro

£m
Equities

£m
Credit

£m

Barclays 
International 

Treasury
£m

Banking
£m

Group 
Treasury

£m

Barclays
Non-Core 

£m

Financial 
Resource 

Managementb
£m

Regulatory VaR (1-day)  13  6  19 –  5  6  –  8 
Regulatory VaR (10-day)  42  20  59 –  16  18  –  25 
SVaR (1-day)  23  11  41 –  10  11  –  20 
SVaR (10-day)  72  35  130  1  30  35  –  64 
IRC  203  5  270  –  1  10  –  65 
CRM  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 

Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolioa

As at 31 December 2016
Macro

£m
Equities

£m
Credit

£m

Barclays 
International 

Treasury
£m

Banking
£m

Group 
Treasury

£m

Barclays
Non-Core 

£m

Financial 
Resource 

Managementb
£m

Regulatory VaR (1-day)  14  12  6  14  12  5  6 –
Regulatory VaR (10-day)  44  38  20  45  40  15  21 –
SVaR (1-day)  22  43  7  30  18  9  22 –
SVaR (10-day)  69  137  24  95  58  30  69 –
IRC  220  8  146  196  25  10  18 –
CRM  –  –  –  –  –  –  2 –

Note
a  Excludes BAGL.
b The movement from Barclays International Treasury to Financial Resource Management was due to changes in the hierarchy. 

The table above shows the primary portfolios which are driving the trading businesses' modelled capital requirement as at 2017 year end. 
The standalone portfolio results diversify at the total level and are not additive. Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and CRM in the prior table show 
the diversified results at a group level. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 163

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Summary of contents Page
Liquidity risk performance
The risk that the firm, although solvent, either 
does not have sufficient financial resources 
available to enable it to meet its obligations 
as they fall due, or can secure such resources 
only at excessive cost. 

This section provides an overview of the 
Group's liquidity risk.

■■ Liquidity overview and summary of performance 166
■■ Liquidity risk stress testing 166

 – Liquidity Risk Appetite 167
 – Liquidity regulation 167
 – Internal and regulatory stress tests 167

The liquidity pool is held unencumbered and 
is not used to support payment or clearing 
requirements. The liquidity pool is intended 
to offset stress outflows, and comprises cash 
and unencumbered assets.

■■ Liquidity pool 168
 – Composition of the liquidity pool 168
 – Liquidity pool by currency 168
 – Management of the Group liquidity pool 168
 – Contingent liquidity 169

The basis for sound liquidity risk 
management is a solid funding structure that 
reduces the probability of a liquidity stress 
leading to an inability to meet funding 
obligations as they fall due.

■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 169
 – Deposit funding 169
 – Behavioural maturity profile 170
 – Wholesale funding 170

Asset encumbrance arises from collateral 
pledged against secured funding and other 
collateralised obligations. Barclays funds a 
portion of trading portfolio assets and other 
securities via repurchase agreements and 
other similar borrowing, and pledges a 
portion of customer loans and advances as 
collateral in securitisation, covered bond and 
other similar secured structures.

■■ Encumbrance 171
 – On-balance sheet 172
 – Off-balance sheet 172
 – Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements 173

In addition to monitoring and managing 
key metrics related to the financial strength 
of the Group, Barclays solicits independent 
credit ratings.

These ratings assess the creditworthiness of 
the Group, its subsidiaries and branches and 
are based on reviews of a broad range of 
business and financial attributes including 
risk management processes and procedures, 
capital strength, earnings, funding, asset 
quality, liquidity, accounting and governance.

■■ Credit ratings 174

Provides details on the contractual maturity 
of all financial instruments and other assets 
and liabilities.

■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 175

164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Page

Capital risk performance
Capital risk is the risk that the firm has an 
insufficient level or composition of capital to 
support its normal business activities and to 
meet its regulatory capital requirements 
under normal operating environments or 
stressed conditions (both actual and as 
defined for internal planning or regulatory 
testing purposes). This also includes the risk 
from the firm's pension plans. 

This section details Barclays' capital position 
providing information on both capital 
resources and capital requirements. 
It also provides details of the leverage 
ratios and exposures.

■■ Capital risk overview and summary of performance 179
■■ Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 180

 – Capital 180
 – Leverage 180

This section outlines the Group's capital 
ratios, capital composition, and provides 
information on significant movements in 
CET1 capital during the year.

■■ Analysis of capital resources 181
 – Capital ratios 181
 – Capital resources 181
 – Movement in CET1 capital 182

This section outlines risk weighted assets by 
risk type, business and macro drivers.

■■ Analysis of risk weighted assets 183
 – Risk weighted assets by risk type and business 183
 – Movement analysis of risk weighted assets 183

This section outlines the Group's leverage 
ratios, leverage exposure composition, 
and provides information on significant 
movements in the IFRS and leverage 
balance sheet.

■■ Analysis of leverage ratios and exposures 184
 – Leverage ratios and exposures 184

The Group discloses the two sources of 
foreign exchange risk that it is exposed to.

■■ Foreign exchange risk 185
 – Transactional foreign currency exposure 185
 – Translational foreign exchange exposure 185
 – Functional currency of operations 185

A review focusing on the UK retirement fund, 
which represents the majority of the Group's 
total retirement benefit obligation.

■■ Pension risk review 186
 – Assets and liabilities 186
 – IAS19 position 186
 – Risk measurement 187

This section outlines the Group's Minimum 
Requirement for own funds and Eligible 
Liabilities (MREL) position and ratios.

■■ Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities 187

Interest rate risk in the banking book performance
A description of the non-traded market risk 
framework is provided.

The Group discloses a sensitivity analysis on 
pre-tax net interest income for non-trading 
financial assets and liabilities. The analysis is 
carried out by business unit and currency.

The Group measures some non-traded market 
risks, in particular prepayment, recruitment, 
and residual risk using an economic capital 
methodology.

The Group discloses the overall impact of a 
parallel shift in interest rates on available for sale 
and cash flow hedges.

The Group measures the volatility of the value of 
the available for sale instruments in the liquidity 
pool through non-traded market risk VaR.

■■ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and summary of performance 188
■■ Net interest income sensitivity 189

 – by business unit 189
 – by currency 189

■■ Economic capital by business unit 189
■■ Analysis of equity sensitivity 190
■■ Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 190

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 165

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Overview
The Group has a comprehensive key risk 
control framework for managing the Group's 
liquidity risk. The Liquidity Framework meets 
the PRA's standards and is designed to 
maintain that the Group's liquidity resources 
are sufficient in amount and quality, and a 
funding profile that is appropriate to meet 
the liquidity risk appetite. The Liquidity 
Framework is delivered via a combination of 
policy formation, review and governance, 
analysis, stress testing, limit setting and 
monitoring.

This section provides an analysis of the 
Group's: (i) summary of performance, (ii) 
liquidity risk stress testing, (iii) liquidity pool, 
(iv) funding structure and funding 
relationships, (v) encumbrance, (vi) credit 
ratings, and (vii) contractual maturity of 
financial assets and liabilities. 

For further detail on liquidity risk governance 
and framework see page 163 to 165 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Summary of performance in 
the period
The Group continued to maintain surpluses to 
its internal and regulatory requirements. The 
liquidity pool increased to £220bn (December 
2016: £165bn) reflecting the approach of 
holding a conservative liquidity position and 
through net deposit growth, the unwind of 
legacy Non-Core portfolios, money market 
borrowing and drawdown from the Bank of 
England Term Funding Scheme. The Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (LCR) increased to 154% 
(December 2016: 131%), equivalent to a 
surplus of £75bn (December 2016: £39bn) 
to 100%. 

Wholesale funding outstanding excluding 
repurchase agreements was £157bn 
(December 2016: £158bn). The Group issued 
£11.5bn equivalent of capital and senior 
unsecured debt from Barclays PLC (the Parent 
company) of which £6.1bn was in public 
senior unsecured debt, and £5.4bn in capital 
instruments. In the same period £6.1bn of 
Barclays Bank PLC capital and senior public 
term instruments either matured or were 
redeemed, including the $1.375bn 7.1% 
Series 3 USD Preference Shares.

Liquidity risk stress testing
Under the Liquidity Framework, the Group has 
established a Liquidity Risk Appetite (LRA) 
together with the appropriate limits for the 
management of the liquidity risk. This is the 
level of liquidity risk the Group chooses to 
take in pursuit of its business objectives and 
in meeting its regulatory obligations. The key 
expression of the liquidity risk is through 
internal stress tests. It is measured with 
reference to the liquidity pool compared 
to anticipated net stressed outflows for 
specific scenarios.

Liquidity risk
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it 
does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to 
support its assets.

All disclosures in this section (pages 166 to 178) are unaudited and exclude BAGL unless 
otherwise stated.

Key metrics

LCR 154%
The Group strengthened its liquidity position during the year, increasing 
its surplus to internal and regulatory requirements.

Term issuance £12bn 
The Group maintains access to stable and diverse sources of funding 
across customer deposits and wholesale debt.

166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Liquidity risk appetite 
As part of the LRA, the Group runs three short-term liquidity stress scenarios, aligned to the PRA's prescribed stresses:
■■ 90-day market-wide stress event
■■ 30-day Barclays specific stress event
■■ combined 30-day market-wide and Barclays specific stress event.

Under normal market conditions, the liquidity pool is managed to be at a target of at least 100% of anticipated outflows under each of these 
stress scenarios. The 30-day combined stress scenario, results in the greatest net outflows of each of the liquidity stress tests. The combined LRA 
scenario has been enhanced and improved to capture a Barclays specific stress coinciding with a market stress over the full stress horizon. As part 
of the LRA, Barclays also establishes the minimum LCR limit.  Barclays also evaluates its long-term LRA, one year stress test based on prolonged 
closure of capital markets.

Key LRA assumptions include: 
For the year ended 31 December 2017

Drivers of  
Liquidity Risk LRA Combined stress – key assumptions
Wholesale Secured 
and Unsecured 
Funding Risk

■■ Zero rollover of maturing wholesale unsecured funding
■■ Loss of repo capacity on non-extremely liquid repos at contractual maturity date
■■ Roll of repo for extremely liquid repo at wider haircut at contractual maturity date
■■ Withdrawal of contractual buyback obligations, excess client futures margin, Prime Brokerage client 

cash and overlifts
■■ Haircuts applied to the market value of marketable assets held in the liquidity buffer

Retail and Corporate 
Funding Risk

■■ Retail and Corporate deposit outflows as counterparties seek to diversify their deposit balances

Intra-day Liquidity Risk ■■ Liquidity held against intraday requirements for the settlement of cash and securities under a stress

Intra-Group Liquidity 
Risk

■■ Liquidity support for material subsidiaries. Surplus liquidity held within certain subsidiaries is not taken as a benefit 
to the wider Group

Cross-Currency 
Liquidity Risk

■■ Currency liquidity cash flows at contractual maturity for physically settled FX forwards and cross currency swaps

Off-balance Sheet 
Liquidity Risk

■■ Drawdown on committed facilities based on facility and counterparty type
■■ Collateral outflows due to a 2 notch credit rating downgrade 
■■ Increase in the Group's initial margin requirement across all major exchanges 
■■ Variation margin outflows from collateralised risk positions 
■■ Outflow of collateral owing but not called
■■ Loss of internal sources of funding within the PB synthetics business

Franchise-Viability 
Risk

■■ Liquidity held in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, but are necessary in order to support 
the firm's ongoing franchise (e.g. debt buybacks)

Funding  
Concentration Risk

■■ Liquidity held against largest wholesale funding counterparty refusing to roll

Liquidity regulation
The Group monitors its position against the CRD IV Delegated Act Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Basel III Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR).

The LCR is designed to promote short-term resilience of a bank's liquidity risk profile by holding sufficient High Quality Liquid Assets to survive an 
acute stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The NSFR has a time horizon of 12 months and has been developed to promote a sustainable maturity 
structure of assets and liabilities.

The CRD IV LCR became effective on 1 October 2015, with a minimum ratio requirement in the UK of 80% as at 31 December 2016; this 
increased to 90% on 1 January 2017 and then to 100% on 1 January 2018. As of 31 December 2017, the Group reported a CRD IV LCR of 154% 
(2016: 131%).

In October 2014, the BCBS published a standard for the NSFR with the minimum requirement. On 23 November 2016, the European Commission 
published draft amendments to the CRR including its proposed implementation of NSFR in the EU. This proposal made a number of changes from 
the Basel NSFR, particularly in the treatment of derivative and secured financing transactions. In October 2017, the BCBS agreed to allow national 
discretion for the NSFR's treatment of derivative liabilities. Barclays continues to assess the impact of these changes on its NSFR ratio, and notes 
that NSFR is not proposed to be a binding regulation in the EU until two years after the European legislation is finalised. We remain above 100% 
well ahead of implementation timelines, based on a conservative interpretation of the Basel rules.

Internal and regulatory liquidity stress tests
The LRA short-term stress scenarios and the CRD IV LCR are comparable, in the sense that adequacy of defined liquidity resources is assessed 
against net stressed outflows over a short-term stress horizon. The CRD  IV LCR stress tests provide an independent assessment of the Group's 
liquidity risk profile.

Stress test Barclays short term LRA CRD IV LCR
Time Horizon 30 – 90 days 30 days
Calculation Liquid assets to net cash outflows Liquid assets to net cash outflows

As at December 2017, the Group held eligible liquid assets well in excess of 100% of net stress outflows for both the 30-day combined market-
wide and Barclays specific LRA scenario and the LCR.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 167

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Compliance with internal and regulatory stress tests 

As at 31 December 2017

Barclays' 
Short Term

LRA (30 day
combined stress

requirement)a, b
£bn

CRD IV LCRb
£bn

Eligible liquidity buffer 220 215
Net stress outflows (175) (140)
Surplus 45 75
Liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated net outflows as at 31 December 2017 126% 154%
Liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated net outflows as at 31 December 2016 120% 131%

Notes
a Of the three stress scenarios monitored as part of the short-term LRA, the 30-day combined stress scenario results in the lowest ratio at 126% (2016: 144%). This compares to 

139% (2016: 134%) under the 90-day market-wide scenario and 131% (2016: 120%) under the 30-day Barclays specific scenario.
b 31 December 2016 reflects the Barclays specific scenario results of 120% being the lowest ratio of the three scenarios. LCR and LRA includes BAGL in 2016.

The Group plans to maintain its surplus to the internal and regulatory stress requirements at an efficient level, while considering risks to market 
funding conditions and its liquidity position. The continuous reassessment of these risks may lead to appropriate actions being taken with respect 
to sizing of the liquidity pool.

Liquidity pool 
The Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2017 was £220bn (2016: £165bn).  During 2017, the month-end liquidity pool ranged from £165bn to 
£232bn (2016: £132bn to £175bn), and the month-end average balance was £202bn (2016: £153bn).  The liquidity pool is held unencumbered 
and is not used to support payment or clearing requirements. Such requirements are treated as part of our regular business funding. The liquidity 
pool is intended to offset stress outflows, and comprises the following cash and unencumbered assets.

Composition of the Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2017

Liquidity 
pool
£bn

Liquidity pool of which CRD IV LCR eligible 2016
Liquidity 

pool
£bn

Cash
£bn

Level 1
£bn

Level 2A
£bn

Cash and deposits with central banksa 173 169 – – 103

Government bondsb

AAA to AA- 31 – 29 –
BBB+ to BBB- 2 – 2 –
Other LCR Ineligible Government bonds 1 – – –
Total government bonds 34 – 31 – 39

Other 
Government Guaranteed Issuers, PSEs and GSEs 6 – 5 2
International Organisations and MDBs 4 – 4 –
Covered bonds 2 – 2 –
Other 1 – 1 –
Total other 13 – 12 2 23
Total as at 31 December 2017 220 169 43 2
Total as at 31 December 2016 165 101 55 3

Notes
a Of which over 99% (2016: over 98%) was placed with the Bank of England, US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan and Swiss National Bank.
b Of which over 84% (2016: over 90%) are comprised of UK, US, Japanese, French, German, Danish, Swiss and Dutch securities.

The Group liquidity pool is well diversified by major currency and the Group monitors LRA stress scenarios for major currencies.

Liquidity pool by currency
USD
£bn

EUR
£bn

GBP
£bn

Other  
£bn

Total
£bn

Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2017 70 55 71 24 220
Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2016 44 36 49 36 165

Management of the Group liquidity pool
The composition of the liquidity pool is subject to limits set by the Board and the independent liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk functions. 
In addition, the investment of the liquidity pool is monitored for concentration risk by issuer, currency and asset type. Given the incremental 
returns generated by these highly liquid assets, the risk and reward profile is continuously managed. 

As at 31 December 2017, 93% (2016: 91%) of the liquidity pool was located in Barclays Bank PLC and was available to meet liquidity needs across 
the Group. The residual liquidity pool is held predominantly within Barclays Capital Inc. (BCI), a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC. The portion of the 
liquidity pool outside of Barclays Bank PLC is held against entity-specific stressed outflows and regulatory requirements. To the extent the use of 
this portion of the liquidity pool is restricted due to regulatory requirements, it is assumed to be unavailable to the rest of the Group.

168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Contingent liquidity
In addition to the Group liquidity pool, the Group has access to other unencumbered assets which provide a source of contingent liquidity. While 
these are not relied on in the Group's LRA, a portion of these assets may be monetised in a stress to generate liquidity through use as collateral for 
secured funding or through outright sale. 

In a Barclays specific, market-wide or combined liquidity stress, liquidity available via market sources could be severely disrupted. In circumstances 
where market liquidity is unavailable or available only at heavily discounted prices, the Group could generate liquidity via central bank facilities. 
The Group maintains a significant amount of collateral pre-positioned at central banks and available to raise funding.

For more detail on the Group's other unencumbered assets see pages 171 to 173.

Funding structure and funding relationships
The basis for sound liquidity risk management is a solid funding structure that reduces the probability of a liquidity stress leading to an inability to 
meet funding obligations as they fall due. The Group's overall funding strategy is to develop a diversified funding base (geographically, by type and 
by counterparty) and maintain access to a variety of alternative funding sources, to provide protection against unexpected fluctuations, while 
minimising the cost of funding.

Within this, the Group aims to align the sources and uses of funding. As such, retail and corporate loans and advances are largely funded by 
customer deposits, with the surplus primarily funding the liquidity pool. Other assets, together with other loans and advances to customers and 
unencumbered assets are funded by wholesale debt and equity. The majority of reverse repurchase agreements are matched by repurchase 
agreements. Derivative liabilities and assets are largely matched. A substantial proportion of balance sheet derivative positions qualify for 
counterparty netting and the remaining portions are largely offset once netted against cash collateral received and paid.

These funding relationships are summarised below:

Assets
2017
£bn

2016
£bn Liabilities

2017
£bn

2016
£bn

Loans and advances to customersa 313 326 Customer accountsa 387 374
Group liquidity pool 220 165 < 1 Year wholesale funding 57 70

> 1 Year wholesale funding 100 88
Other assetsb 89 185 Equity and other liabilities 78 151
Reverse repurchase agreements, trading 
portfolio assets, cash collateral and 
settlement balancesc 273 190

Repurchase agreements, trading portfolio 
liabilities, cash collateral and settlement 
balances 273 190

Derivative financial instruments 238 347 Derivative financial instruments 238 340
Total assets 1,133 1,213 Total liabilities 1,133 1,213

Deposit funding (audited)

Funding of loans and advances to customers
As at 31 December 2017

2017 2016
Loans and

advances to
customers

£bn

Customer
deposits

£bn

Loan to
deposit ratio

%

Loan to
deposit ratio

%
Barclays UK 184 193
Barclays International 101 162
Total retail and corporate fundingd 285 355 80% 89%

Barclays International and Head Office 81 74
Total Barclays Group 366 429 85% 93%

Notes
a Excludes cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Other assets include trading portfolio assets that are not part of repurchase agreements, loans and advances to banks and other asset categories.
c Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and trading portfolio assets that are part of repurchase agreements. 
d Excludes investment banking balances other than interest earning lending. Comparatives have been restated to include interest earning lending balances within the investment 

banking business.

As at 31 December 2017, £153bn (2016: £139bn) of total customer deposits were insured through the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and other similar schemes. In addition to these customer deposits £4bn (2016: £4bn) of other liabilities are insured by governments.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 169

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Although contractually current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Group's broad base of customers, 
numerically and by depositor type, helps protect against unexpected fluctuations in balances. Such accounts form a stable funding base for the 
Group's operations and liquidity needs. The Group assesses the behavioural maturity of both customer assets and liabilities to identify structural 
balance sheet funding gaps. Customer behaviour is determined by quantitative modelling combined with qualitative assessment taking into 
account historical experience, current customer composition, and macroeconomic projections. These behavioural profiles represent our forward 
looking expectation of the run-off profile. 

Behavioural maturity profile

Loans and 
advances to 

customers
£bn

Customer 
deposits

£bn

Customer 
funding 

surplus/ 
(deficit)

£bn

Behavioural maturity profile 
cash outflow/(inflow)

Not more 
than one 

year
£bn

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than five 

years
£bn

More than 
five years

£bn
As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 184 193 9 1 (19) 27
Barclays Internationala 101 162 61 6 19 36
Total 285 355 70 7 – 63

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 166 189 23 (2) (19) 44
Barclays Internationala 118 152 34 (6) 7 33
Barclays Non-Core 19 – (19) (1) (6) (12)
Total 303 341 38 (9) (18) 65

Note
a Excludes investment banking balances other than interest earning lending. Comparatives have been restated to include interest earning lending balances within the investment 

banking business.

Wholesale fundingb
The Group maintains access to a variety of sources of wholesale funds in major currencies, including those available from term investors across a 
variety of distribution channels and geographies, money markets, and repo markets. The Group has direct access to US, European and Asian 
capital markets through its global investment banking operations and long-term investors through its clients worldwide, and is an active 
participant in money markets. As a result, wholesale funding is well diversified by product, maturity, geography and major currency.

As at 31 December 2017, the Group's total wholesale funding outstanding (excluding repurchase agreements) was £157.4bn (2016: £157.8bn), 
of which £20.4bn (2016: £25.8bn) was secured funding and £137.0bn (2016: £132.0bn) unsecured funding.  Unsecured funding includes 
£44.8bn (2016: £37.6bn) of privately placed senior unsecured notes issued through a variety of distribution channels including intermediaries 
and private banks.

During the year, the Group issued £11.5bn equivalent of capital and senior unsecured debt from Barclays PLC (the Parent company), of which 
£6.1bn was in public senior unsecured debt and £5.4bn in capital instruments. In the same period, £6.1bn of Barclays Bank PLC capital and senior 
public term instruments either matured or were redeemed, including the $1.375bn 7.1% Series 3 USD preference shares.

As at 31 December 2017, wholesale funding of £57.2bn (2016: £70.3bn) matures in less than one year, of which £13.8bnc (2016: £21.5bn) 
relates to term funding. Although not a requirement, the liquidity pool exceeded the wholesale funding maturing in less than one year by 
£163bn (2016: £95bn).

The Group expects to continue issuing public wholesale debt in 2018 from Barclays PLC (the Parent company), in order to maintain compliance 
with indicative MREL requirements and maintain a stable and diverse funding base by type, currency and market.

Notes
b The composition of wholesale funds comprises the balance sheet reported deposits from banks, financial liabilities at fair value, debt securities in issue and subordinated 

liabilities, excluding cash collateral and settlement balances and collateral swaps. It does not include participation in central bank facilities reported within repurchase agreements 
and other similar secured borrowing.

c Term funding comprises public benchmark and privately placed senior unsecured notes, covered bonds, asset backed securities (ABS) and subordinated debt where the original 
maturity of the instrument was more than one year.

170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Maturity profile of wholesale fundinga
<1 

month
£bn

1-3 
months

£bn

3-6 
months

£bn

6-12 
months

£bn

<1 
year
£bn

1-2 
years

£bn

2-3 
years

£bn

3-4 
years

£bn

4-5 
years

£bn

>5 
years

£bn
Total

£bn
Barclays PLC (the Parent company)
Senior unsecured 
(Public benchmark) – 0.7 – 0.1 0.8 1.5 1.0 4.2 4.0 9.6 21.1
Senior unsecured (Privately placed) – – – 0.1 0.1 – – 0.2 – 0.5 0.8
Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – 1.1 – – 5.4 6.5
Barclays Bank PLC 
(including subsidiaries)
Deposits from banks 5.4 4.7 0.7 0.6 11.4 0.1 0.1 0.3 – – 11.9
Certificates of deposit and 
commercial paper 2.4 8.1 7.1 7.0 24.6 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.1 27.7
Asset backed commercial paper 1.9 4.1 0.4 – 6.4 – – – – – 6.4
Senior unsecured (Public 
benchmark) – – – – – 2.5 0.6 0.6 – 1.1 4.8
Senior unsecured (Privately placed)b 0.5 0.9 3.6 2.9 7.9 9.9 6.7 1.8 3.1 14.6 44.0
Covered bonds – 1.0 – – 1.0 1.8 1.0 1.0 2.4 1.3 8.5
Asset backed securities – – 0.6 0.2 0.8 1.7 1.0 – 0.1 1.8 5.4
Subordinated liabilities 2.3 0.1 0.8 – 3.2 0.1 0.8 5.2 3.5 4.5 17.3
Otherc 0.5 – 0.1 0.4 1.0 0.2 0.2 0.3 – 1.3 3.0
Total as at 31 December 2017 13.0 19.6 13.3 11.3 57.2 19.0 13.3 14.2 13.5 40.2 157.4
Of which secured 1.9 5.1 1.1 0.2 8.3 3.5 2.0 1.0 2.5 3.1 20.4
Of which unsecured 11.1 14.5 12.2 11.1 48.9 15.5 11.3 13.2 11.0 37.1 137.0
Total as at 31 December 2016 16.6 17.3 16.4 20.0 70.3 14.3 14.4 8.6 14.1 36.1 157.8
Of which secured 3.7 5.6 3.4 2.3 15.0 1.8 3.2 0.4 1.0 4.4 25.8
Of which unsecured 12.9 11.7 13.0 17.7 55.3 12.5 11.2 8.2 13.1 31.7 132.0

Notes
a Term funding comprises public benchmark and privately placed senior unsecured notes, covered bonds, asset backed securities (ABS) and subordinated debt where the original 

maturity of the instrument was more than one year.
b Includes structured notes of £33.4bn, £7.2bn of which matures within one year.
c Primarily comprised of fair value deposits of £1.7bn.
 

Currency composition of wholesale debt
As at 31 December 2017, the proportion of wholesale funding by major currencies was as follows:

Currency composition of wholesale funding
USD

%
EUR

%
GBP

%
Other

%
Deposits from banks 48 21 27 4
Certificates of deposits and commercial paper 50 40 9 1
Asset backed commercial paper 85 10 5  –   
Senior unsecured (public benchmark) 59 23 12 6
Senior unsecured (Privately placed) 46 28 10 16
Covered bonds/ABS 30 42 28  –   
Subordinated liabilities 40 30 29 1
Total as at 31 December 2017 50 28 10 12
Total as at 31 December 2016 48 32 16 4

To manage cross-currency refinancing risk, the Group manages to foreign exchange cash flow limits, which limit risk at specific maturities. 

Encumbrance 
Asset encumbrance arises from collateral pledged against secured funding and other collateralised obligations. Barclays funds a portion of trading 
portfolio assets and other securities via repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing, and pledges a portion of customer loans and 
advances as collateral in securitisation, covered bond and other similar secured structures. Barclays monitors the mix of secured and unsecured 
funding sources within the Group's funding plan and seeks to efficiently utilise available collateral to raise secured funding and meet other 
collateral requirements.

Encumbered assets have been defined consistently with the Group's reporting requirements under Article 100 of the CRR. Securities and 
commodities assets are considered encumbered when they have been pledged or used to secure, collateralise or credit enhance a transaction 
which impacts their transferability and free use. This includes external repurchase or other similar agreements with market counterparts.

Excluding assets positioned at central banks, as at 31 December 2017, £193bn (2016: £168bn) of the Group's assets were encumbered,  
primarily due to cash collateral posted, firm financing of trading portfolio assets and other securities and funding secured against loans 
and advances to customers.  

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 171

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Assets may also be encumbered under secured funding arrangements with central banks. In advance of such encumbrance, assets are often 
positioned with central banks to facilitate efficient future draw down. £70bn (2016: £63bn) of on-balance sheet assets were positioned at the 
central banks, consisting of encumbered assets and collateral pre-positioned and available for use in secured financing transactions. 

£342bn (2016: £277bn) of on- and off-balance sheet assets not positioned at the central bank were identified as readily available for use in 
secured financing transactions. Additionally, they include cash and securities held in the Group liquidity pool as well as unencumbered assets 
which provide a source of contingent liquidity. While these additional assets are not relied upon in the Group's LRA, a portion of these assets may 
be monetised to generate liquidity through use as collateral for secured funding or through outright sale. Loans and advances to customers are 
only classified as readily available if they are already in a form, such that, they can be used to raise funding without further management actions. 
This includes excess collateral already in secured funding vehicles.

£198bn (2016: £231bn) of assets not positioned at the central bank were identified as available as collateral. These assets are not subject to any 
restrictions on their ability to secure funding, to be offered as collateral, or to be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are 
not immediately available in the normal course of business in their current form. They primarily consist of loans and advances which would be 
suitable for use in secured funding structures but are conservatively classified as not readily available because they are not in transferable form.

Not available as collateral consists of assets that cannot be pledged or used as security for funding due to restrictions that prevent their pledge or 
use as security for funding in the normal course of business.

Derivatives and reverse repo assets relate specifically to derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending. These are 
shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged. However, these assets can give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which 
are held off-balance sheet, and can be used to raise secured funding or meet additional funding requirements.

In addition, £548bn (2016: £406bn) of the total £608bn (2016: £466bn) securities accepted as collateral, and held off-balance sheet, were 
on-pledged, the significant majority of which related to matched-book activity where reverse repurchase agreements are matched by repurchase 
agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder relates primarily to reverse repurchase agreements used to settle trading 
portfolio liabilities as well as collateral posted against derivatives margin requirements.

Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2017

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central bank 
and unencumbered assets)

As a result 
of covered 

bonds
£bn

As a 
result of 
securiti-

sations
£bn

Other
£bn

Total
£bn

Assets 
positioned 

at the 
central 
banksb

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central bank

Total
£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not
 available 

as 
collateral

£bn

Derivatives 
and 

Reverse
 repos

£bn
Cash and balances at central banks 171.1  –  –  –   – – 171.1 – – – 171.1
Trading portfolio assets 113.8  –  – 73.9 73.9 – 39.9 – – – 39.9
Financial assets at fair value 116.3  –  – 4.8 4.8 – 1.5 10.0 – 100.0 111.5
Derivative financial instruments 237.7  –  –  –   – – – – – 237.7 237.7
Loans and advances – banksa 11.1  –  –  –   – – 3.2 7.0 0.9 – 11.1
Loans and advances – customersa 312.9 11.2 18.4 13.0 42.6 70.0 20.9 179.4 – – 270.3
Cash collateral 58.6 – – 56.4 56.4 – 2.2 – – – 2.2
Settlement balances 18.6 – – – – – – – 18.6 – 18.6
Financial investments 58.9  –  – 15.5 15.5 – 43.0 0.4 – – 43.4
Reverse repurchase agreements 12.5  –  –  –   – – – – – 12.5 12.5
Non-current assets held for sale 1.2  –  –    –   – – – 1.2 – – 1.2
Other financial assets 20.5  –  –  –   –  –    –    –   20.5  – 20.5
Total on-balance sheet 1,133.2 11.2 18.4 163.6 193.2 70.0 281.8 198.0 40.0 350.2 940.0

Off-balance sheet

Collateral
 received

£bn

Collateral
 received 
of which

 on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not 
available 

as 
collateral

£bn
Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 608.4 547.6 60.1 – 0.7
Total unencumbered collateral – – 341.9 198.0 40.7

Notes
a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in Note 40 to the financial 

statements page 312.

172 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2016

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central bank 
and unencumbered assets)

As a result 
of covered 

bonds
£bn

As a 
result of 

securitis-
ations

£bn
Other

£bn
Total
£bn

Assets 
positioned 

at the 
central 
banksb

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central bank

Total
£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not
 available 

as 
collateral

£bn

Derivatives 
and 

Reverse
 repos

£bn
Cash and balances at central banks 102.4 – – – – – 102.4 – – – 102.4
Trading portfolio assets 80.2 – – 51.2 51.2 – 29.0 – – – 29.0
Financial assets at fair value 78.6 – – 3.2 3.2 – 1.5 10.7 – 63.2 75.4
Derivative financial instruments 346.6 – – – – – – – – 346.6 346.6
Loans and advances – banksa 20.2 – – – – – 10.1 9.0 1.1 – 20.2
Loans and advances – customersa 325.7 16.5 6.2 8.0 30.7 63.0 23.8 208.2 – – 295.0
Cash collateral 68.8 – – 68.8 68.8 – – – – – –
Settlement balances 21.3 – – – – – – – 21.3 – 21.3
Financial investments 63.3 – – 13.6 13.6 – 49.3 0.4 – – 49.7
Reverse repurchase agreements 13.5 – – – – – – – – 13.5 13.5
Non current assets held for sale 6.4 – – – – – 1.2 3.1 2.1 – 6.4
Other financial assets 21.0 – – – – – – – 21.0 – 21.0
Total on-balance sheet 1,148.0 16.5 6.2 144.8 167.5 63.0 217.3 231.4 45.5 423.3 980.5

Off-balance sheet

Collateral
 received

£bn

Collateral
 received 
of which

 on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not 
available 

as 
collateral

£bn
Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 466.2 405.5 59.7 – 1.0
Total unencumbered collateral – – 277.0 231.4 46.5

Notes
a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in Note 40 to the financial 

statements page 312.

Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements
Barclays enters into repurchase and other similar secured borrowing agreements to finance its trading portfolio assets. The majority of reverse 
repurchase agreements are matched by offsetting repurchase agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder are used to settle 
trading portfolio liabilities.

Due to the high quality of collateral provided against secured financing transactions, the liquidity risk associated with this activity is significantly 
lower than unsecured financing transactions. Nonetheless, Barclays manages to gross and net secured mismatch limits to limit refinancing risk 
under a severe stress scenario and a portion of the Group's liquidity pool is held against stress outflows on these positions. The Group secured 
mismatch limits are calibrated based on market capacity, liquidity characteristics of the collateral and risk appetite of the Group.

The cash value of repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions will typically differ from the market value of the collateral against which these 
transactions are secured by an amount referred to as a haircut (or over-collateralisation). Typical haircut levels vary depending on the quality of 
the collateral that underlies these transactions. For transactions secured against extremely liquid fixed income collateral, lenders demand relatively 
small haircuts (typically ranging from 0-2%). For transactions secured against less liquid collateral, haircuts vary by asset class (typically ranging 
from 5-10% for corporate bonds and other less liquid collateral).

As at 31 December 2017, the significant majority of repurchase activity related to matched-book activity. The Group may face refinancing risk on 
the net maturity mismatch for matched-book activity.  

Net matched-book activitya,b,c

Negative number represents net repurchase agreement (net liability)

Less than 
one month

£bn

One month 
to three 
months

£bn

Over three 
months

£bn
As at 31 December 2017
Extremely liquid fixed incomed (36.4) 18.1 16.1
Liquid fixed income (0.9) 1.5 (1.4)
Equities 9.7 (5.6) (8.8)
Less liquid fixed income 1.7 (0.7) (2.2)
Total (25.9) 13.3 3.7
As at 31 December 2016
Extremely liquid fixed income (21.8) 11.6 10.7
Liquid fixed income (0.4) 0.8 (0.7)
Equities 6.1 (0.5) (9.6)
Less liquid fixed income 0.6 (0.2) (1.3)
Total (15.5) 11.7 (0.9)

Notes
a Includes collateral swaps.
b Includes financing positions for prime brokerage clients which are reported as customer payables or receivables on balance sheet.
c  Values are reported on a cash value basis.
d Extremely liquid fixed income is defined as very highly rated sovereigns and agencies, typically rated AA+ or better. It excludes liquid fixed income, equities and other less liquid collateral.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 173

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

The residual repurchase agreement activity is the firm-financing component and reflects Barclays funding of a portion of its trading portfolio 
assets. The primary risk related to firm-financing activity is the inability to roll-over transactions as they mature.

Firm financing repurchase agreementsa,b,c

Less than 
one month

£bn

One month 
to three 
months

£bn

Over three 
months

£bn
Total

£bn
As at 31 December 2017
Extremely liquid fixed incomed 37.2 10.3 1.4 48.9
Liquid fixed income 4.1 1.5 2.5 8.1
Equities 17.4 21.4 15.7 54.5
Less liquid fixed income 2.1 1.9 12.6 16.6
Total 60.8 35.1 32.2 128.1
As at 31 December 2016
Extremely liquid fixed income 28.3 7.1 1.1 36.5
Liquid fixed income 2.8 0.8 1.2 4.8
Equities 13.2 8.9 14.0 36.1
Less liquid fixed income 1.9 0.8 2.6 5.3
Total 46.2 17.6 18.9 82.7

Notes
a Includes collateral swaps.
b Includes financing positions for prime brokerage clients which are reported as customer payables or receivables on-balance sheet.
c  Values are reported on a cash value basis.
d Extremely liquid fixed income is defined as very highly rated sovereigns and agencies, typically rated AA+ or better. It excludes liquid fixed income, equities and other less liquid 

collateral.

Credit ratings
In addition to monitoring and managing key metrics related to the financial strength of the Group, Barclays also solicits independent credit ratings 
from Standard & Poor's Global (S&P), Moody's, Fitch and Rating and Investment Information (R&I). These ratings assess the creditworthiness of 
the Group, its subsidiaries and branches and are based on reviews of a broad range of business and financial attributes including capital strength, 
profitability, funding, liquidity, asset quality, strategy and governance.

Credit ratings
As at 31 December 2017 Standard & Poor's Moody's Fitch
Barclays Bank PLC
Long-term A A1 A
Short-term A-1 P-1 F1
Outlook Stable Negative Rating Watch Positive
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Long-term A (prelim) (P) A1 A+ (EXP)
Short-term A-1 (prelim) (P) P-1 F1 (EXP)
Outlook Stable Unassigned Stable
Barclays PLC
Long-term BBB Baa2 A
Short-term A-2 P-3 F1
Outlook Stable Negative Stable

All credit rating agencies took rating actions this year to assign initial ratings to Barclays Bank UK PLC in anticipation of the establishment of this 
entity as the UK ring-fenced bank in April 2018. There were also rating actions on the existing entities of Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC by 
some of the credit rating agencies as detailed below.

In September 2017, Fitch assigned an expected rating to Barclays Bank UK PLC of A+, reflecting a one notch uplift from the expected standalone 
rating of A. This is due to the sufficient amount of junior debt they expect to be outstanding in Barclays Bank UK PLC, referred to as qualifying 
junior debt (QJD).  In the same rating action, Fitch revised the outlook of Barclays Bank PLC from stable to rating watch positive in anticipation 
of assigning QJD uplift of one notch during 2018.

In October 2017, S&P upgraded long- and short-term ratings of Barclays Bank PLC by one notch to A/A-1 from A-/A-2 as S&P finalised their view 
of the status of Barclays Bank PLC. They determined that Barclays Bank PLC would remain core to the Group revising their previous expectation of 
a highly strategic status. Simultaneously, Barclays Bank UK PLC was assigned a preliminary rating of A in anticipation that it too would be core to 
the Group. In November 2017, S&P also revised their view of UK economic risk for the UK banking sector, which led to outlooks for Barclays PLC, 
Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC being revised from negative to stable.

Moody's assigned a provisional rating to Barclays Bank UK PLC in October 2017 of (P)A1. The negative outlooks for Barclays PLC and Barclays 
Bank PLC have remained in place since the outcome of the EU referendum in June 2016. Since October 2017, the implementation of ring-fencing 
has been included in the rationale for the maintenance Barclays Bank PLC's negative outlook.

Barclays also solicits issuer ratings from R&I and the ratings of A- for Barclays PLC and A for Barclays Bank PLC were affirmed in July 2017 with 
stable outlooks.

A credit rating downgrade could result in outflows to meet collateral requirements on existing contracts. Outflows related to credit rating 
downgrades are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the liquidity pool is held against this risk. Credit ratings downgrades 
could also result in reduced funding capacity and increased funding costs. 

174 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The contractual collateral requirement following one- and two-notch long-term and associated short-term downgrades across all credit rating 
agencies, would result in outflows of £4bn and £6bn respectively, and are fully reserved for in the liquidity pool. These numbers do not assume any 
management or restructuring actions that could be taken to reduce posting requirements. These outflows do not include the potential liquidity 
impact from loss of unsecured funding, such as from money market funds, or loss of secured funding capacity. However, unsecured and secured 
funding stresses are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the liquidity pool is held against these risks.

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities. Derivatives (other than 
those designated in a hedging relationship) and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the ‘on demand' column at their fair value. 
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity 
and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value. Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to 
their contractual maturity.

Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in other 
assets and other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them; any request for funds from creditors would be met 
by simultaneously liquidating or transferring the related investment.

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months 
but not 

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months 
but not 

more 
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine
months 
but not 

more than 
one year

£m

Over one
year 

but not
more than
two years

£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total 

£m
Assets
Cash and balances  
at central banks 170,236 846 – – – – – – – – 171,082
Items in the course of 
collection from other banks 2,153 – – – – – – – – – 2,153
Trading portfolio assets 113,760 – – – – – – – – – 113,760
Financial assets designated 
at fair value 14,800 77,288 8,828 4,570 1,252 2,095 160 196 557 6,535 116,281
Derivative financial 
instruments 237,504 41 – – – 71 22 15 1 15 237,669
Financial investments 30 2,378 2,717 97 504 5,675 3,928 16,162 17,059 10,366 58,916
Loans and advances to banks 3,439 30,227 1,256 77 125 247 93 11 – 188 35,663
Loans and advances to 
customers 12,022 70,816 8,511 5,519 7,622 35,969 26,151 39,435 48,382 111,125 365,552
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other  
similar secured lending 7,522 4,446 578 – – – – – – – 12,546
Other financial assets – 759 – – – 110 – – – – 869
Total financial assets 561,466 186,801 21,890 10,263 9,503 44,167 30,354 55,819 65,999 128,229 1,114,491
Other assetsa 18,757
Total assets 1,133,248
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 4,967 30,826 718 438 214 74 135 316 35 – 37,723
Items in the course of 
collection due to other banks 446 – – – – – – – – – 446
Customer accounts 334,961 74,812 7,381 3,386 3,628 2,684 500 882 231 656 429,121
Repurchase agreements  
and other similar secured 
borrowing 3,550 17,841 4,516 2,136 1,396 310 93 10,006 490 – 40,338
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,351 – – – – – – – – – 37,351
Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value 13,298 102,860 10,570 5,918 3,139 10,515 7,281 5,879 4,923 9,335 173,718
Derivative financial 
instruments 237,235 10 3 – – 10 5 4 41 1,037 238,345
Debt securities in issue 907 17,120 8,395 5,107 1,562 8,136 3,883 12,819 10,983 4,402 73,314
Subordinated liabilities – 2,402 791 7 23 57 1,959 8,751 5,466 4,370 23,826
Other financial liabilities – 3,793 – – – 781 – – – – 4,574
Total financial liabilities 632,715 249,664 32,374 16,992 9,962 22,567 13,856 38,657 22,169 19,800 1,058,756
Other liabilitiesa 8,476
Total liabilities 1,067,232
Cumulative liquidity gap (71,249) (134,112) (144,596) (151,325) (151,784) (130,184) (113,686) (96,524) (52,694) 55,735 66,016

Note
a As at 31 December 2017, other assets includes balances of £1,193m (2016: £71,454m) and other liabilities includes balances of £nil (2016: £65,292m) relating to amounts held for 

sale. Please refer to Note 43 for details.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 175

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months 
but not 

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months 
but not 

more 
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine
months 
but not 

more than 
one year

£m

Over one
year 

but not
more than
two years

£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total 

£m
Assets
Cash and balances  
at central banks 102,031 322  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 102,353
Items in the course of 
collection from other banks 1,467  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets 80,240  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 80,240
Financial assets designated 
at fair value 15,558 43,270 5,518 2,376 2,081 686 90 129 771 8,129 78,608
Derivative financial 
instruments 345,625 5 400 5 2 14 168 175 123 109 346,626
Financial investments 40 1,015 3,064 741 2,666 10,127 9,031 15,148 12,768 8,717 63,317
Loans and advances to banks 4,858 34,346 2,753 480 133 412 236 20 13  – 43,251
Loans and advances to 
customers 26,929 85,993 7,522 6,310 8,245 29,326 25,602 44,776 48,233 109,848 392,784
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other similar 
secured lending 7,043 3,678 892 144 905 792  –  –  –  – 13,454
Other financial assets  – 1,128  –  –  – 77  –  –  –  – 1,205
Total financial assets 583,791 169,757 20,149 10,056 14,032 41,434 35,127 60,248 61,908 126,803 1,123,305
Other assetsa 89,821
Total assets 1,213,126
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 5,906 39,610 1,120 672 351 193 13 328 21  – 48,214
Items in the course of 
collection due to other banks 636  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 636
Customer accounts 317,963 86,081 5,305 3,023 4,528 2,836 1,262 1,043 441 696 423,178
Repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured 
borrowing 5,480 9,235 1,934 917 1,326 311  – 83 474  – 19,760
Trading portfolio liabilities 34,687  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 34,687
Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value 15,285 41,583 3,970 4,112 1,827 7,540 5,762 5,773 3,588 6,591 96,031
Derivative financial 
instruments 339,646 4  –  – 2 10 34 46 75 670 340,487
Debt securities in issue 27 16,731 11,713 5,902 6,867 3,166 8,069 9,186 10,152 4,119 75,932
Subordinated liabilities  – 8  –  – 1,317 3,230 56 7,487 6,575 4,710 23,383
Other financial liabilities  – 3,198  –  –  – 1,189  –  –  –  – 4,387
Total financial liabilities 719,630 196,450 24,042 14,626 16,218 18,475 15,196 23,946 21,326 16,786 1,066,695
Other liabilitiesa 75,066
Total liabilities 1,141,761
Cumulative liquidity gap (135,839) (162,532) (166,425) (170,995) (173,181) (150,222) (130,291) (93,989) (53,407) 56,610 71,365

Note
a As at 31 December 2017, other assets includes balances of £1,193m (2016: £71,454m) and other liabilities includes balances of £nil (2016: £65,292m) relating to amounts held for 

sale. Please refer to Note 43 for details.

Expected maturity dates do not differ significantly from the contract dates, except for:
■■ trading portfolio assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Group's trading 

strategies
■■ retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis. In practice, 

these instruments form a stable base for the  Group's operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers – both numerically 
and by depositor type (see Behavioural maturity profile on page 170)

■■ financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities.

176 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis 
The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet 
date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities (i.e. nominal values).

The balances in the below table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, 
on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.

Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.

Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the 
Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities – undiscounted (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months 
but not 

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months 
but not 

more than 
one year

£m

Over one
year 

but not
more than

three years
£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total 

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Deposits from banks 4,967 30,831 720 654 213 316 36 – 37,737
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 446 – – – – – – – 446
Customer accounts 334,961 74,830 7,383 7,020 3,197 884 231 725 429,231
Repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending 3,550 17,847 4,526 3,557 410 10,259 490 – 40,639
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,351 – – – – – – – 37,351
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value 13,298 102,983 10,609 9,118 18,142 6,177 5,490 12,834 178,651
Derivative financial instruments 237,235 9 3 – 15 5 48 1,755 239,070
Debt securities in issue 907 17,614 8,565 7,025 13,786 13,928 12,687 6,734 81,246
Subordinated liabilities – 2,822 1,816 685 5,501 10,232 6,243 6,231 33,530
Other financial liabilities – 3,793 – – 781 – – – 4,574
Total financial liabilities 632,715 250,729 33,622 28,059 42,045 41,801 25,225 28,279 1,082,475

As at 31 December 2016
Deposits from banks 5,906 39,617 1,122 1,025 207 328 21 – 48,226
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 636 – – – – – – – 636
Customer accounts 317,963 86,101 5,325 7,565 4,266 1,120 1,403 1,013 424,756
Repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending 5,480 9,249 1,939 2,253 312 83 474 – 19,790
Trading portfolio liabilities 34,687 – – – – – – – 34,687
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value 15,285 41,599 3,986 5,979 13,445 5,899 3,900 8,443 98,536
Derivative financial instruments 339,646 4 – 2 44 48 84 1,086 340,914
Debt securities in issue 27 17,126 11,894 13,285 12,915 10,505 12,282 6,054 84,088
Subordinated liabilities – 398 680 3,117 7,089 9,324 7,842 4,866 33,316
Other financial liabilities – 3,198 – – 1,189 – – – 4,387
Total financial liabilities 719,630 197,292 24,946 33,226 39,467 27,307 26,006 21,462 1,089,336

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 177

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity

Risk review

Maturity of off-balance sheet commitments received and given
The table below presents the maturity split of the Group's off-balance sheet commitments received and given at the balance sheet date. 
The amounts disclosed in the table are the undiscounted cash flows (i.e. nominal values) on the basis of earliest opportunity at which 
they are available.

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received (audited)

On 
demand

£m

Not more 
than three 

months
£m

Over three 
months 
but not 

more 
than six 
months

£m

Over six 
months 
but not 

more 
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine 
months 
but not 

more than 
one year

£m

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two 
years but 
not more 

than three 
years

£m

Over three 
years but 
not more 
than five 

years
£m

Over five 
years but 
not more 
than ten 

years
£m

Over ten
 years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Guarantees, letters of credit and 
credit insurance 6,373 5 2 3 1 8 7 5 3 4 6,411
Forward starting repurchase 
agreements – 29 – – – – – – – – 29
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments received 6,373 34 2 3 1 8 7 5 3 4 6,440

As at 31 December 2016
Guarantees, letters of credit and 
credit insurance 6,044 18 1 410 2 23 1 3 – – 6,502
Forward starting repurchase 
agreements 102 246 – 1 – – 18 – – – 367
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments received 6,146 264 1 411 2 23 19 3 – – 6,869

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given (audited)

On 
demand

£m

Not more 
than three 

months
£m

Over three 
months 
but not 

more 
than six 
months

£m

Over six 
months 
but not 

more 
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine 
months 
but not 

more than 
one year

£m

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two 
years but 
not more 

than three 
years

£m

Over three 
years but 
not more 
than five 

years
£m

Over five 
years but 
not more 
than ten 

years
£m

Over ten
 years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Contingent liabilities 16,047 1,085 560 92 242 346 80 59 245 256 19,012
Documentary credits and other 
short-term trade related transactions 34 593 147 26 6 5 1 – – – 812
Standby facilities, credit lines and 
other commitments 311,481 1,144 883 77 778 44 47 259 2 46 314,761
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments given 327,562 2,822 1,590 195 1,026 395 128 318 247 302 334,585

As at 31 December 2016
Contingent liabilities 17,111 425 845 233 285 355 187 88 259 151 19,939
Documentary credits and other 
short-term trade related transactions 987 10 8 – – – – – – – 1,005
Standby facilities, credit lines and 
other commitments 300,043 479 415 604 818 55 47 150 – 70 302,681
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments given 318,141 914 1,268 837 1,103 410 234 238 259 221 323,625

178 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview
The fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio, 
among other metrics, is a measure of the 
capital strength and resilience of Barclays. 
Maintenance of our capital is vital in order to 
meet the minimum capital requirements, and 
to cover the Group's current and forecast 
business needs, and associated risks in 
order to provide a viable and sustainable 
business offering. 

This section provides an overview of the 
Group's: (i) regulatory minimum capital and 
leverage requirements; (ii) capital resources; 
(iii) risk weighted assets (RWAs); and (iv) 
leverage ratios and exposures.

More details on monitoring and managing 
capital risk may be found in the Risk 
Management sections on pages 166 to 167 
of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Summary of performance in 
the period
Barclays continues to be in excess of 
minimum transitional and end point capital 
requirements, and regulatory minimum 
leverage requirements.

The fully loaded CET1 ratio increased to 
13.3% (December 2016: 12.4%) principally 
due to a reduction in risk weighted assets 
(RWAs) of £52.6bn to £313.0bn. CET1 capital 
decreased £3.6bn to £41.6bn. 

The sell down of Barclays' holding in BAGL to 
14.9%, resulting in regulatory proportional 
consolidation, increased the CET1 ratio by 
c60bps with a £31.1bn reduction in RWAs 
offset by £1.8bn reduction due to BAGL 
minority interests no longer being included 
in CET1 capital. 

Losses in respect of the discontinued 
operation due to the impairment of Barclays' 
holding in BAGL allocated to goodwill, and the 
recycling of the BAGL currency translation 
reserve losses to the income statement, had 
no impact on CET1.

The CET1 ratio increased by a further c50bps 
as a result of other RWA reductions, excluding 
the impact of foreign currency movements, 
including reductions in Non-Core.  

Excluding the impacts of BAGL and foreign 
currency movements, CET1 capital decreased 
further as profits relating to continuing 
operations, after absorbing the  impact of the 
US DTA remeasurement, were offset by the 
redemption of US Dollar preference shares 
and the payment of pension deficit reduction 
contributions in the year. 

The average UK leverage ratio increased to 
4.9% (December 2016: 4.5%) primarily driven 
by the issuance of Additional Tier 1 capital 
(AT1) securities, the reduction in Non-Core 
related exposures and due to BAGL's 
regulatory proportional consolidation.

Capital risk
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal 
business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating 
environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning or 
regulatory testing purposes). This includes the risk from the firm's pension plans.

All disclosures in this section (pages 179 to 187) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

Fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 13.3% 

Average UK leverage ratio  4.9% 

Risk review

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Capital

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 179

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Capital

Risk review

Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements
Capital 
Barclays' end point CET1 regulatory requirement is expected to be 11.4% comprising of a 4.5% Pillar 1 minimum, a 2.5% Capital Conservation 
Buffer (CCB), a 1.5% Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) buffer, a 2.4% Pillar 2A requirement, and an expected 0.5% Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer (CCyB).

The CCB and the G-SII buffer, determined by the PRA in line with guidance from the Financial Stability Board (FSB), are subject to phased 
implementation at 25% per annum from 2016 with full effect from 2019. The CCB has been set at 2.5% with 1.25% applicable for 2017. 
The G-SII buffer for 2017 was set at 2% with 1% applicable for 2017. On 21 November 2016, the FSB confirmed that the G-SII buffer for 2018 
has been set at 1.5% with 1.1% applicable for 2018. On 21 November 2017, the FSB confirmed that the G-SII buffer will remain at 1.5% 
applicable for 2019. 

On 25 September 2017, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) reaffirmed that it expects to increase the UK CCyB rate from 0% to 0.5% applicable 
from 27 June 2018 and to 1% applicable from 28 November 2018. Based on current UK exposures, Barclays' CCyB is expected to be approximately 
0.5% from November 2018. Other national authorities also determine the appropriate CCyBs that should be applied to exposures in their 
jurisdiction, however, based on current exposures, these are not material. 

Barclays' Pillar 2A requirement as per the PRA's Individual Capital Guidance (ICG) for Q417 and 2018 is 4.3% of which at least 56.25% needs to be 
met in CET1 form, equating to approximately 2.4% of RWAs. Certain elements of the Pillar 2A requirement are a fixed quantum while others are a 
proportion of RWAs and are based on a point in time assessment. The Pillar 2A requirement is subject to at least annual review.

For regulatory reporting purposes, BAGL is treated on a proportional consolidation basis based on Barclays' holding in BAGL of 14.9%.

The CRD IV CET1 transitional minimum capital requirement for 2017 is 9.2% which comprised of a 4.5% Pillar 1 minimum, a 2.4%  Pillar 2A 
requirement, a 1.25% CCB, a 1% G-SII buffer and a 0% CCyB.

Leverage
In October 2017, following the FPC recommendation, the PRA increased the minimum requirement for the UK leverage ratio from 3% to 3.25%.

Barclays is subject to a leverage ratio requirement that is implemented on a phased basis, with a transitional requirement of 3.6% as at 
31 December 2017; this comprises the 3.25% minimum requirement, a transitional G-SII additional leverage ratio buffer (G-SII ALRB) of 0.35% and 
a countercyclical leverage ratio buffer (CCLB) which is currently nil. Although the leverage ratio is expressed in terms of tier 1 capital, 75% of the 
minimum requirement, equating to 2.4375%, needs to be met with CET1 capital. In addition, the G-SII ALRB and CCLB must be covered solely 
with CET1 capital. The CET1 capital held against the 0.35% transitional G-SII ALRB was £3.4bn. The fully loaded expected end point UK leverage 
requirement is 4.0%. 

180 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Capital resources
The CRR and Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) implemented Basel III within the EU (collectively known as CRD IV) on 1 January 2014. 
The rules are supplemented by Regulatory Technical Standards and the PRA's rulebook, including the implementation of transitional rules. 
However, rules and guidance are still subject to change as certain aspects of CRD IV are dependent on final technical standards and 
clarifications to be issued by the EBA and adopted by the European Commission and the PRA. 

Capital ratios
As at 31 December 2017 2016
Fully loaded CET1a,b 13.3% 12.4%
PRA transitional Tier 1c,d 17.2% 15.6%
PRA transitional total capitalc,d 21.5% 19.6%

Capital resources (audited)

As at 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
Total equity (excluding non-controlling interests) per the balance sheet 63,905 64,873
Less: other equity instruments (recognised as AT1 capital) (8,941) (6,449)
Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends (392) (388)

Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) – 1,825

Other regulatory adjustments and deductions
Additional value adjustments (PVA) (1,385) (1,571)
Goodwill and intangible assets (7,908) (9,054)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding temporary differences (593) (494)
Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow hedges (1,161) (2,104)
Excess of expected losses over impairment (1,239) (1,294)
Gains or losses on liabilities at fair value resulting from own credit 83 86
Defined-benefit pension fund assets (732) (38)
Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (50) (50)
Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold) – (183)
Other regulatory adjustments (22) 45
Fully loaded CET1 capital 41,565 45,204

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 8,941 6,449
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 3,538 5,445
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (130) (130)
Transitional AT1 capitale 12,349 11,764
PRA transitional Tier 1 capital 53,914 56,968

Tier 2 (T2) capital
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 6,472 3,769
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 7,040 11,366
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (251) (257)
PRA transitional total regulatory capital 67,175 71,846

Notes
a The transitional regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital are no longer applicable resulting in CET1 capital on a fully loaded basis being equal to that on a transitional basis.
b The CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) as applicable to Barclays' Tier 2 Contingent Capital Notes was 13.9% based on £43.5bn of transitional CRD IV 

CET1 capital and £313bn RWAs.
c The PRA transitional capital is based on the PRA Rulebook and accompanying supervisory statements.
d As at 31 December 2017, Barclays' fully loaded Tier 1 capital was £50,376m, and the fully loaded Tier 1 ratio was 16.1%. Fully loaded total regulatory capital was £64,646m and 

the fully loaded total capital ratio was 20.7%. The fully loaded Tier 1 capital and total capital measures are calculated without applying the transitional provisions set out in CRD 
IV and assessing compliance of AT1 and T2 instruments against the relevant criteria in CRD IV. 

e Of the £12.3bn transitional AT1 capital, fully loaded AT1 capital comprises the £8.9bn of contingent convertible instruments issued by Barclays PLC (the holding company) and 
related share premium accounts, and £0.1bn capital deductions. It excludes £3.5bn legacy Tier 1 capital instruments issued by subsidiaries that are subject to grandfathering. For 
the leverage ratio, only the AT1 capital on a fully loaded basis is applicable.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 181

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Capital

Risk review

Movement in CET1 capital
2017

£m
Opening balance as at 1 January 45,204

Loss for the period attributable to equity holders (1,283)
Own credit relating to derivative liabilities 78
Dividends paid and foreseen (978)
Decrease in retained regulatory capital generated from earnings (2,183)

Net impact of share schemes 86
Available for sale reserve 438
Currency translation reserve 3
Other reserves (920)
Decrease in other qualifying reserves (393)

Pensions remeasurements within reserves 53
Defined-benefit pension fund asset deduction (694)
Net impact of pensions (641)

Minority interests (1,825)
Additional value adjustments (PVA) 186
Goodwill and intangible assets 1,146
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences (99)
Excess of expected loss over impairment 55
Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold) 183
Other regulatory adjustments (68)
Decrease in regulatory capital due to adjustments and deductions (422)
Closing balance as at 31 December 41,565

CET1 capital decreased to £41.6bn (December 2016: £45.2bn) due to the following: 
■■ a £1.3bn loss for the period attributable to equity holders reflecting profit after tax of £1.1bn, including the net tax charge of £0.9bn due to the 

remeasurement of US DTAs in Q417 offset by £2.3bn of losses in respect of the discontinued operation. The discontinued operation losses, 
resulting from the impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL allocated to goodwill and the recycling of BAGL currency translation reserve losses 
to the income statement, had no impact on CET1 capital with offsetting movements in the goodwill and intangible assets deduction and other 
qualifying reserves

■■ a £1.0bn decrease for dividends paid and foreseen
■■ a £0.4bn increase in the available for sale reserve primarily due to gains from changes in fair value on BAGL's remaining shares held as available 

for sale
■■ The currency translation reserve remained flat in the year largely due to the £1.4bn recycling of BAGL losses to the income statement which 

were offset by a £1.3bn decrease driven by the depreciation of period end USD against GBP
■■ a £0.9bn decrease in other reserves which included a £0.5bn decrease as a result of USD preference share redemptions and £0.4bn of 

separation payments in relation to the sale of Barclays' holding in BAGL
■■ a £0.6bn decrease net of tax as a result of movements relating to pensions. The pension asset capital deduction increase relates to the UK 

Retirement Fund, which is the Group's main pension scheme, moving from a small deficit in December 2016 to a £1.0bn surplus largely due to 
payment deficit contributions

■■ a £1.8bn decrease due to BAGL minority interests which are no longer eligible as a result of proportional consolidation of BAGL
■■ a £1.1bn increase due to a reduced goodwill and intangible assets deduction largely as a result of the impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL 

allocated to goodwill.

182 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk weighted assets
Risk weighted assets (RWAs) by risk type and business

As at 
31 December 2017

Credit risk Counterparty credit riska Market risk
Operational 

risk
Total 

RWAs

Std
£m

IRB
£m

Std
£m

IRB
£m

Settlement
 Risk

£m
CVA

£m
Std
£m

IMA
£m £m £m

Barclays UK 3,811 54,955 – – – – – – 12,167 70,933
Barclays International 49,058 69,520 17,000 17,243 101 2,776 13,313 13,547 27,708 210,266
Head Officeb 2,907 9,766 65 633 – 225 88 1,365 16,785 31,834
Barclays Group 55,776 134,241 17,065 17,876 101 3,001 13,401 14,912 56,660 313,033

As at 
31 December 2016
Barclays UK 5,592 49,591 47 – – – – – 12,293 67,523
Barclays International 53,201 82,327 13,515 13,706 30 3,581 9,343 9,460 27,538 212,701
Head Officeb 9,048 27,122 77 1,157 – 927 482 2,323 12,156 53,292
Barclays Non-Core 4,714 9,945 1,043 6,081 37 2,235 477 2,928 4,673 32,133
Barclays Group 72,555 168,985 14,682 20,944 67 6,743 10,302 14,711 56,660 365,649

Movement analysis of risk weighted assets

Risk weighted assets
Credit risk 

£bn

Counterparty
 credit riska

£bn
Market risk

£bn

Operational
risk
£bn

Total 
RWAs

£bn
As at 31 December 2016 241.5 42.4 25.0 56.7 365.6
Book size (11.0) (1.2) 5.4 – (6.8)
Acquisitions and disposals (31.7) (1.5) (1.6) – (34.8)
Book quality (3.5) 0.5 0.1 – (2.9)
Model updates (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Methodology and policy 0.6 (2.2) (0.6) – (2.2)
Foreign exchange movementc (4.5) – – – (4.5)
As at 31 December 2017 190.0 38.0 28.3 56.7 313.0

Notes
a RWAs in relation to default fund contributions are included in counterparty credit risk.
b Includes Africa Banking RWAs.
c Foreign exchange movement does not include FX for modelled counterparty risk or modelled market risk.

RWAs decreased £52.6bn to £313.0bn:
■■ book size decreased RWAs by £6.8bn primarily due to portfolio rundowns related to Barclays Non-Core, the remeasurement of US DTAs as a 

result of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and securitisation transactions, partially offset by increased trading activity in investment bank businesses
■■ acquisitions and disposals decreased RWAs £34.8bn primarily as a result of the proportional consolidation of BAGL
■■ book quality decreased RWAs £2.9bn primarily due to changes in risk profile in CIB
■■ model updates decreased RWAs £1.4bn primarily due to model changes in Africa Banking prior to the sell down of Barclays holding in BAGL
■■ methodology and policy decreased RWAs £2.2bn primarily due to a revised calculation basis for modelled derivative exposures
■■ foreign exchange movements decreased RWAs £4.5bn primarily due to the depreciation of period end USD against GBP.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 183

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Capital

Risk review

Leverage ratios and exposures
Barclays is required to disclose an average UK leverage ratio which is based on capital and exposure measures on the last day of each month in the 
quarter; as well as a UK leverage ratio which is based on the last day of the quarter. Both approaches exclude qualifying claims on central banks 
from the leverage exposures. Barclays is also required to disclose a Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) leverage ratio, which is based on the 
end point CRR definition of Tier 1 capital and the CRR definition of leverage exposure.

Leverage exposure

Leverage ratios

As at
31.12.17

£bn

As at
31.12.16

£bn
Average UK leverage exposure 1,045 1,137
Average fully loaded Tier 1 capital 51.2 51.6
Average UK leverage ratio 4.9% 4.5%
UK leverage ratio 5.1% 5.0%
CRR leverage ratio 4.5% 4.6%

UK leverage exposure
Accounting assets
Derivative financial instruments 238 347
Cash collateral 53 67
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 12 13
Financial assets designated at fair valuea 116 79
Loans and advances and other assets 714 707
Total IFRS assets 1,133 1,213

Regulatory consolidation adjustments 8 (6)

Derivatives adjustments
Derivatives netting (217) (313)
Adjustments to cash collateral (42) (50)
Net written credit protection 14 12
Potential Future Exposure (PFE) on derivatives 120 136
Total derivatives adjustments (125) (215)

Securities financing transactions (SFTs) adjustments 19 29

Regulatory deductions and other adjustments (13) (15)
Weighted off-balance sheet commitments 103 119
CRR leverage exposure 1,125 1,125

Qualifying central bank claims (140) (75)
UK leverage exposure 985 1,050

Fully loaded CET1 capital 41.6 45.2
Fully loaded AT1 capital 8.8 6.8
Fully loaded tier 1 capital 50.4 52.0

Note
a Included within financial assets designated at fair value are reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value of £100bn (December 2016: £63bn).

The average UK leverage ratio increased to 4.9% (December 2016: 4.5%) primarily driven by the issuance of AT1 securities, the reduction in 
Non-Core related exposures and due to BAGL's regulatory proportional consolidation.

The CRR leverage ratio decreased to 4.5% (December 2016: 4.6%). The difference between the average UK leverage ratio and the CRR leverage 
ratio movement is primarily driven by an increase in cash at central banks, which are excluded from the UK leverage ratio calculation. Additionally, 
the year end fully loaded Tier 1 capital is lower than the average due to the remeasurement of US DTAs as a result of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
in December:
■■ loans and advances and other assets increased by £7bn to £714bn. This was primarily due to a £69bn increase in cash and balances at central 

banks largely driven by an increase in the cash contribution to the Group liquidity pool mainly exempt under UK leverage rules, and a £70bn 
decrease in assets held for sale driven by the sell down of Barclays' holding in BAGL

■■ reverse repurchase agreements increased £36bn to £112bn, primarily due to an increase in matched book trading
■■ net derivative leverage exposures decreased £33bn to £166bn due to a reduction in interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives, the rundown 

of Non-Core related assets, a decrease in cash collateral and the depreciation of period end USD and JPY against GBP
■■ regulatory consolidation adjustments increased £14bn to £8bn primarily due to the proportional consolidation of BAGL following the sell down 

of Barclays' holding
■■ weighted off-balance sheet commitments decreased £16bn to £103bn primarily due to the proportional consolidation of BAGL following the sell 

down of Barclays' holding.

Additional Barclays regulatory disclosures are prepared in accordance with the EBA Guidelines on disclosure requirements under Part Eight of 
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (see Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017) and will be disclosed on 22 February 2018, available at home.barclays/results.

184 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Foreign exchange risk (audited)
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.

a) Transactional foreign currency exposure
Transactional foreign currency exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the 
functional currency of the transacting entity.

The Group's risk management policies prohibit the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio 
managed by Barclays International which is monitored through VaR.

Banking book transactional foreign exchange risk outside of Barclays International is monitored on a daily basis by the market risk function and 
minimised by the businesses.

b) Translational foreign exchange exposure
The Group's investments in overseas subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies, principally USD and 
EUR. Changes in the GBP value of the net investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, 
resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.

The Group's strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange movements, by matching the CET1 capital 
movements to the revaluation of the Group's foreign currency RWA exposures.

Functional currency of operations
Functional currency of operations (audited)

Foreign
currency

net
investments

£m

Borrowings
which hedge

the net
investments

£m

Derivatives
which hedge

the net
investments

£m

Structural
currency

exposures
pre-

economic
hedges

£m

Economic
hedges

£m

Remaining
structural
currency

exposures
£m

As at 31 December 2017
USD 27,848 (12,404) (540) 14,904 (6,153) 8,751
EUR 2,489 (3) – 2,486 (2,127) 359
ZAR 8 – – 8 – 8
JPY 467 (152) (301) 14 – 14
Other 2,475 – (1,299) 1,176 – 1,176
Total 33,287 (12,559) (2,140) 18,588 (8,280) 10,308

As at 31 December 2016
USD 29,460 (12,769) – 16,691 (7,898) 8,793
EUR 2,121 (363) – 1,758 (2,053) (295)
ZAR 3,679 – (2,571) 1,108 – 1,108
JPY 438 (209) (224) 5 – 5
Other 2,793 – (1,318) 1,475 – 1,475
Total 38,491 (13,341) (4,113) 21,037 (9,951) 11,086

The economic hedges primarily represent the USD and EUR preference shares and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instruments that are held as equity. 
These are accounted for at historic cost under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.

During 2017, total structural currency exposure net of hedging instruments decreased by £0.8bn to £10.3bn (2016: £11.1bn). Foreign currency net 
investments decreased by £5.2bn to £33.3bn (2016: £38.5bn) driven predominantly by the decrease in ZAR investments following the partial 
disposal of the Group's investment in BAGL and accounting deconsolidation of the remaining holding. The hedges associated with these 
investments decreased by £2.8bn to £14.7bn (2016: £17.5bn).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 185

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Capital

Risk review

Pension risk review 
The UK Retirement Fund (UKRF) represents approximately 96% (2016: 96%) of the Group's total retirement benefit obligations globally. As such 
this risk review section focuses exclusively on the UKRF. The UKRF is closed to new entrants and there is no new final salary benefit being accrued. 
Existing active members accrue a combination of a cash balance benefit and a defined contribution element. Pension risk arises as the market 
value of the pension fund assets may decline, investment returns may reduce or the estimated value of the pension liabilities may increase.

See page 167 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017 for more information on how pension risk is managed.

Assets
The Trustee Board of the UKRF defines its overall long-term investment strategy with investments across a broad range of asset classes. 
This results in an appropriate mix of return seeking assets as well as liability matching assets to better match future pension obligations. 
The main market risks within the asset portfolio are against interest rates and equities. The split of scheme assets is shown within Note 35. 
The fair value of the UKRF assets was £30.1bn as at 31 December 2017 (2016: £31.8bn).

Liabilities
The UKRF retirement benefit obligations are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis these cash flows 
are sensitive to changes in the expected long-term price inflation rate (RPI) and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve):
■■ an increase in long-term expected inflation corresponds to an increase in liabilities
■■ a decrease in the discount rate corresponds to an increase in liabilities.

Pension risk is generated through the Group's defined benefit schemes and this risk is set to reduce over time as the main defined benefit scheme 
is closed to new entrants. The chart below outlines the shape of the UKRF's liability cash flow profile as at 31 December 2017 that takes account 
of the future inflation indexing of payments to beneficiaries. The majority of the cash flows (approximately 88%) fall between 0 and 40 years, 
peaking between 11 and 20 years and reducing thereafter. The shape may vary depending on changes to inflation and longevity expectations and 
any members who elect to transfer out. Transfers out will bring forward the liability cash flows. 

For more detail on the UKRF's financial and demographic assumptions see Note 35 to the financial statements. 

19.4%
26.4%

25.3%
16.8%

9.1%
3.0%

0-10 years
11-20 years
21-30 years
31-40 years
41-50 years
51 years +

Proportion of liability cash flows
UKRF surplus/deficit (£bn)

Q4 2015

2

-2

Q4 2016 Q4 2017

IAS 19 pension position in 2017

The graph above shows the UKRF's net IAS 19 pension position for each quarter-end for the past two years. The volatility shown by the fluctuation 
in the net IAS 19 pension position is reflective of the movements observed in the market.

In Q2 2016, the UKRF IAS 19 position deteriorated as the AA discount rate moved lower, driven by both a decrease in long-dated government bond 
yields as well as a tightening in credit spreads.

During H2 2016, this trend continued driven by the outcome of the EU Referendum in June as well as the Bank of England's announcement on 
quantitative easing in August. These events drove significant market moves adversely affecting the UKRF AA discount rate. For example the 
market index IBOXX £-Corp AA yield was 53bps lower between June and September.

Gilt yields reverted higher in the months following September 2016 which was also reflected in a higher AA discount rate. As a result the 
net IAS 19 position ended 2016 close to zero.

During 2017, the net improvement in the IAS 19 position was largely driven by bank contributions. Changes to market levels, in particular equity 
prices and interest rates, largely offset each other over the year.

Please see Note 35 for the sensitivity of the UKRF to changes in key assumptions.

186 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk measurement
In line with Barclays' risk management framework the assets and liabilities of the UKRF are modelled within a VaR framework to show the 
volatility of the pension positions on a total portfolio level. This enables the risks, diversification and liability matching characteristics of the UKRF 
obligations and investments to be adequately captured. VaR is measured and monitored on a monthly basis. Risks are reviewed and reported 
regularly at forums including the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Committee, the Pensions Management Group and the Pension Executive 
Board. The VaR model takes into account the valuation of the liabilities based on an IAS 19 basis (see Note 35). The Trustee receives quarterly VaR 
measures on a funding basis.

The pension liability is also sensitive to post-retirement mortality assumptions which are reviewed regularly. See Note 35 for more details.

In addition the impact of pension risk to the Group is taken into account as part of the stress testing process. Stress testing is performed internally 
on at least an annual basis. The UKRF exposure is also included as part of regulatory stress tests. 

Barclays defined benefit pension schemes affects capital in two ways:
■■ An IAS 19 deficit is treated as a liability on the Group's balance sheet. Movement in a deficit due to remeasurements, including actuarial losses, 

are recognised immediately through Other Comprehensive Income and as such reduces shareholders' equity and CET1 capital. An IAS 19 
surplus is treated as an asset on the balance sheet and increases shareholders' equity; however, it is deducted for the purposes of determining 
CET1 capital.

■■ In the Group's statutory balance sheet an IAS 19 surplus or deficit is partially offset by a deferred tax liability or asset respectively. These may 
or may not be recognised for calculating CET1 capital depending on the overall deferred tax position of the Group at the particular time.

Pension risk is taken into account in the Pillar 2A capital assessment undertaken by the PRA at least annually. The Pillar 2A requirement forms 
part of the Group's overall regulatory minimum requirement for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. More detail on minimum regulatory 
requirements can be found in the capital risk management section on page 166 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL)
Under the Bank of England's statement of policy on MREL, the BoE will set MREL for UK globally systemically important banks (G-SIBs) as 
necessary to implement the total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) standard and institution or group-specific MREL requirements will depend 
on the preferred resolution strategy for that institution or group. 

The MREL requirements will be phased in from 1 January 2019 and will be fully implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time G-SIBs with 
resolution entities incorporated in the UK, including Barclays, will be required to meet an MREL equivalent to the higher of (i) two times the sum of 
its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements or (ii) the higher of two times its leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures. However, the PRA will review 
the MREL calibration by the end of 2020, including assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may drive a different 1 January 2022 
MREL requirement than currently proposed. In addition, it is proposed that CET1 capital cannot be counted towards both MREL and the combined 
buffer requirement (CBR), meaning that the CBR will effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements relating to own funds 
and MREL.

Barclays' indicative MREL requirement is currently expected to be 29.1% of RWAs from 1 January 2022 consisting of the following components:
■■ Loss absorption and recapitalisation amounts consisting of 8% Pillar 1 and 4.3% Pillar 2A buffers respectively.
■■ Regulatory buffers including a 1.5% G-SII buffer, 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and 0.5% from the planned introduction of a 1% 

Countercyclical Capital Buffer for the UKa.

MREL position and ratios
MREL ratios 2017 2016
Fully loaded CET1 capital 13.3% 12.4%
Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital instruments and related share premium accounts 2.9% 1.8%
Tier 2 (T2) capital instruments and related share premium accounts 2.1% 1.0%
Term senior unsecured funding 6.8% 4.6%
Total Barclays PLC (the Parent company) MREL ratio 25.0% 19.8%
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesb 1.1% 1.5%
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesb 2.2% 3.0%
Total MREL ratio on a transitional basis, including eligible Barclays Bank PLC instruments 28.2% 24.2%

MREL position £m £m
Fully loaded CET1 capital 41,565 45,204
AT1 capital instruments and related share premium accounts 8,941 6,449
T2 capital instruments and related share premium accounts 6,472 3,769
Term senior unsecured funding 21,166 16,785
Total Barclays PLC (the Parent company) MREL position 78,144 72,207
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesb 3,408 5,315
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesb 6,789 11,109
Total MREL position on a transitional basis, including eligible Barclays Bank PLC instruments 88,341 88,631

Total RWAs 313,033 365,649

Notes
a 2022 requirements subject to Bank of England review by the end of 2020.
b Includes other AT1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions of £130m (December 2016: £130m) and other T2 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions of £251m 

(December 2016: £257m).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 187

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Interest rate risk in the banking book

Risk review

Overview
The non-traded market risk framework 
covers exposures in the banking book, mostly 
relating to accrual accounted and available 
for sale instruments. The potential volatility of 
net interest income is measured by an Annual 
Earnings at Risk (AEaR) metric which is 
monitored regularly and reported to Senior 
Management and the BRC as part of the limit 
monitoring framework.

For further detail on interest rate risk in the 
banking book governance and framework 
see pages 168 to 169 of the Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Summary of performance in 
the period
Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR), is a key 
measure of interest rate risk in the banking 
book (IRRBB). The additional sensitivity 
measure of a positive 100bps shock was 
added for 2017, driven by the rise in GBP 
base rate in November 2017.

Interest rate risk in the banking book
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch 
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

All disclosures in this section (pages 188 to 190) are unaudited and exclude BAGL unless 
otherwise stated.

Key metrics

AEaR +£76m
across the Group from a positive 100bps shock in interest rates. 
The Group maintains access to stable and diverse sources of 
funding across customer deposits and wholesale debt.

188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Interest rate risk in the banking book
Net interest income sensitivity
The table below shows a sensitivity analysis on pre-tax net interest income for non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities, including the 
effect of any hedging. The sensitivity has been measured using the Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) methodology as described on page 168 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017. Note that this metric assumes an instantaneous parallel change to interest rate forward curves. The model floors 
shocked market rates at zero; changes in Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity are only observed where forward rates are greater than zero. The 
main model assumptions are: (i) one year time horizon; (ii) balance sheet is held constant; (iii) balances are adjusted for assumed behavioural 
profiles (e.g. considers that customers may remortgage before the contractual maturity); and (iv) behavioural assumptions are kept unchanged in 
all rate scenarios.

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by business unita,b,c (audited)

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m

Barclays 
Non-Core

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
+100bps 45 31 – 76
+25bps 11 9 – 20
-25bps (61) (22) – (83)

As at 31 December 2016
+100bps 19 46 6 71
+25bps 5 16 1 22
-25bps (130) (90) – (220)

Notes
a Excludes investment banking business.
b Excludes Treasury operations, which are driven by the firm's investments in the liquidity pool, which are risk managed using value-based risk measures described on page 163 to 

165 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017. Treasury's NII (AEaR) sensitivity to a +25/-25bps move is £13m/£(2)m respectively.
c Expected fixed rate mortgage pipeline completions in Barclays UK assumed to be consistent with level and timing of pipeline hedging.

NII asymmetry arises due to the current low level of interest rates. Modelled NII sensitivity to a -25bp shock to rates has however reduced year on 
year as a result of the change in UK base rate increasing from 0.25% to 0.5% in November 2017. 

Both Barclays UK and Barclays International exposures to falling rates have reduced as a result of the higher base rate environment and the 
movement of customer savings rates away from the implicit customer savings market 0% floor.

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by currencya 

As at 31 December 2017

2017 2016
+25 basis

points
£m

-25 basis
points

£m

+25 basis
points

£m

-25 basis
points

£m
GBP 12 (76) 9 (215)
USD 1 (1) 3 (5)
EUR 4 (1) 7 1 
Other currencies 3 (5) 3 (1)
Total 20 (83) 22 (220)
As percentage of net interest income 0.20% (0.84%) 0.21% (2.09%)

Note
a Barclays UK and Barclays International sensitivity (excluding Investment Banking business and Treasury).

Economic Capital by business unit
Barclays measures some non-traded market risks using an Economic Capital (EC) methodology. EC is predominantly calculated using a VaR model 
using a 99% confidence interval aligning to other regulatory submissions. For more information on definitions of prepayment, recruitment and residual 
risk, and on how EC is used to manage non-traded market risk, see the treasury and capital risk management section on pages 168 to 169 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.

Economic Capital by business unit

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays
Internationala

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Prepayment risk 20 13 33
Recruitment risk 64 1 65
Residual risk 3 3 6
Total 87 17 104

As at 31 December 2016
Prepayment risk 27 8 35
Recruitment risk 18 2 20
Residual risk 1 35 36
Total 46 45 91

Note
a Only retail exposures within Barclays International are captured in the measure.

Recruitment risk in Barclays UK has increased by £46m due to higher volumes of pipeline hedging, as a result of increased customer appetite for 
fixed rate mortgages.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 189

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk – Interest rate risk in the banking book

Risk review

Analysis of equity sensitivity
Equity sensitivity table measures the overall impact of a +/- 25bps movement in interest rates on retained earnings, available for sale and cash flow 
hedge reserves. This data is captured using DV01 metric which is an indicator of the shift in value for a 1 basis point in the yield curve.

Analysis of equity sensitivity (audited)

As at 31 December

2017 2016
+25 basis

points
£m

-25 basis
points

£m

+25 basis
points

£m

-25 basis
points

£m
Net interest income 20 (83) 22 (220)
Taxation effects on the above (6) 25 (7) 66
Effect on profit for the year 14 (58) 15 (154)
As percentage of net profit after tax (1.57%) 6.52% 0.54% (5.45%)

Effect on profit for the year (per above) 14 (58) 15 (154)
Available for sale reserve (164) 219 (154) 114
Cash flow hedge reserve (616) 598 (732) 692
Taxation effects on the above 195 (204) 222 (202)
Effect on equity (571) 555 (649) 450
As percentage of equity (0.87%) 0.84% (0.91%) 0.63%

As indicated in relation to the net interest income sensitivity table on page 189, the impact of a 25bps movement in rates is largely driven by 
Barclays UK. 

The year on year movement in cash flow hedge reserve sensitivities was driven by structural changes in business activities and related hedging. 
Movements in the available for sale reserve would impact CRD IV fully loaded CET1 capital, however the movement in the cash flow hedge reserve 
would not impact CET1 capital.

Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 
Changes in value of available for sale exposures flow directly through capital via the available for sale reserve. The volatility of the value of 
the available for sale investments in the liquidity pool is captured and managed through a value measure rather than an earning measure, 
i.e. the Non-Traded Market Risk VaR.

Although the underlying methodology to calculate the non-traded VaR is identical to the one used in Traded Management VaR, the two measures 
are not directly comparable. The Non-Traded VaR represents the volatility to capital driven by the available for sale exposures. These exposures are 
in the banking book and do not meet the criteria for trading book treatment.

Jan 2017

60 Value of risk (£m)

Dec 2017

Non-traded value at risk (£m)

Analysis of volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool

For the year ended 31 December

2017 2016
Average

£m
High

£m
Low
£m

Average
£m

High
£m

Low
£m

Non-Traded Market Value at Risk (daily, 95%) 36 50 27 40 46 32

Non-traded VaR shown was mainly driven by volatility of interest rates in developed markets. The increases in late Spring and early Autumn were 
driven primarily by additional outright interest rate risk exposure taken in the liquidity pool at those times.

190 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Overview
Operational risks are inherent in the Group's 
business activities and it is not always cost 
effective or possible to attempt to eliminate all 
operational risks. The operational risk 
management framework is therefore focused 
on identifying operational risks and 
confirming that they are assessed and 
managed within the Group's approved risk 
appetite. More material losses are less 
frequent and the Group seeks to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of these in accordance 
with its risk appetite.

The Operational Principal Risk comprises the 
following risks: data management and 
information, financial reporting, fraud, 
payments process, people, premises and 
security, supplier, tax, technology and 
transaction operations.

For definitions of these risks see pages 132 
and 133. In order to provide complete 
coverage of the potential adverse impacts on 
the Group arising from operational risk, the 
operational risk taxonomy extends beyond the 
operational risks listed above to cover areas 
included within conduct, legal and model 
risks.

This section provides an analysis of the 
Group's operational risk profile, including 
events above the Bank's reportable threshold, 
which have had a financial impact in 2017.

 For information on conduct risk events 
please see page 194.

Summary of performance in 
the period
During 2017, total operational risk losses 
increased to £309m (2016: £209m) while the 
number of recorded events for 2017 decreased 
to 2,949 from 3,414 events recorded during 
the prior year. The loss for the year was 
primarily driven by events falling within the 
execution, delivery and process management 
and external fraud categories, with a limited 
number of high impact events.

Risk performance
Operational risk

Operational risk
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or 
due to external events (for example, fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or 
market risks.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

 87%
of the Group's net reportable operational risk events had a loss value of £50k or less.

 75%
of events by number are due to external fraud.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 191

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk performance
Operational risk

Risk review

Operational risk profile
Within operational risk, a high proportion 
of risk events have a low financial cost while 
a very small proportion of operational risk 
events will have a material impact on the 
financial results of the Group. In 2017, 87% of 
the Group's net reportable operational risk 
events by volume had a value of less than 
£50,000 (2016: 86%), although this type of 
event accounted for only 16% (2016: 22%) of 
the Group's total net operational risk losses.   

The analysis below presents the Group's 
operational risk events by Basel event 
category:
■■ Execution, delivery and process 

management impacts increased to 
£222m (2016: £165m) and accounted for 
72% (2016: 69%) of overall operational risk 
losses. The events in this category are 
typical of the banking industry as a whole 
where high volumes of transactions are 
processed on a daily basis. The increase in 
impact was largely driven by a limited 
number of events with higher loss values.

■■ External fraud is the category with the 
highest frequency of events (75% of total 
events in 2017, up from 71% in prior year) 
where high volume, low value events are 
driven by debit and credit card fraud. These 
accounted for 20% of overall operational 
risk losses in 2017, slightly down compared 
to 25% for prior year. 

■■ Business disruption impacts increased 
to £24m, accounting for 8% of total 
operational risk losses in 2017, mainly driven 
by a few events with significant impacts. 
Overall the volume of events in this 
category remained low and decreased 
from 2016.

The Group's operational risk profile is 
informed by bottom-up risk assessments 
undertaken by each business unit and 
top-down qualitative review from the 
Operational Risk Management for each risk 
type. External Fraud and Technology are 
highlighted as key operational risk exposures. 
The operational risk profile is also informed by 
a number of risk themes: execution, resilience, 
cyber and data. These represent threats to the 
Group but have scope which extends across 
multiple risk types, and therefore require a risk 
management approach which is integrated 
within relevant risk and control frameworks. 

Investment continues to be made in new 
and enhanced fraud prevention systems and 
tools to combat the increasing level of fraud 
attempts being made and to minimise any 
disruption to genuine transactions. Fraud 
remains an industry-wide threat and the 
Group continues to work closely with external 
partners on various prevention initiatives. 
Technology, resilience and cyber security risks 
evolve rapidly so the Group maintains 

continued focus and investment in the control 
environment to manage these risks, and 
actively partners with peers and relevant 
organisations to understand and disrupt 
threats originating outside of the Group.

For further information, see operational 
risk management section (pages 132 
and 133). 

0.0
0.1

Clients, products and business practices

0.2
1.2

Damage to physical assets

0.4
0.6

Employment practices and workplace safety

2.2
2.0

Business disruption and system failures

21.5
24.4

Execution, delivery and process management

75.2
71.2

External fraud

2017   0.5
2016   0.4

Internal fraud

Operational risk events by risk category
% of total risk events by count

0
0.1

Clients, products and business practices

0.1
0.7

Damage to physical assets

0.3
3.4

Employment practices and workplace safety

7.6
1.4

Business disruption and system failures

Note 
a  The data disclosed includes operational risk losses for 

reportable events (excluding BAGL) having an impact of 
≥ £10,000 and excludes events that are conduct or legal 
risk, aggregate and boundary events. A boundary event is 
an operational risk event that results in a credit risk impact. 
Due to the nature of risk events that continue to evolve, 
prior year losses are updated.

72.2
69.2

Execution, delivery and process management

19.5
24.8

External fraud

2017   0.3
2016   0.4

Internal fraud

Operational risk events by risk category
% of total risk events by value

192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview
Model risk is a focal area of management 
and the Board. It is an important component 
of regulators' assessment of Barclays' risk 
management capabilities. Models are used 
to support a broad range of business and risk 
management activities, including informing 
business decisions and strategies, measuring 
and limiting risks, valuing exposures, 
conducting stress testing, assessing capital 
adequacy, supporting new business 
acceptance and risk/reward evaluation, 
managing client assets, or meeting reporting 
requirements.

Summary of performance in 
the period 
The Principal Risk framework for model 
risk was established in 2016. In 2017, the 
framework was enhanced and embedded 
further in the organisation by:
■■ strengthening of the Group-wide Model 

Risk Management (MRM) framework, 
policy and associated standards, validation 
templates and procedures

■■ enhancement of Board oversight of model 
risk, through the establishment of a model 
risk tolerance framework and periodic 
updates to the Board on the progress of 
the MRM implementation

■■ improved collection and attestation of 
the Group's global inventory of models

■■ reporting metrics on policy adherence 
and breaches

■■ enhancement of model development and 
model identification processes, with the 
areas of model ownership throughout the 
firm establishing their own model control 
functions.

In addition to the governance outlined above, 
which details how new models are validated 
and existing models are internally controlled 
and assessed, models have been classified 
based on their materiality (the level of reliance 
placed on the model output for decision 
making or reporting), and their complexity.  
A strengthened programme of review and 
validation for such material models 
commenced during 2017.  In 2018, model risk 
governance will be broadened beyond the 
quantitative models of the firm to include 
‘non-modelled methods' covering certain 
material decision making and capital planning 
functions of the firm, such as the primary 
stress testing programmes and impairment 
estimations.

Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions 
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Risk review

Risk performance
Model risk

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 193

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Overview
Barclays strives to create and maintain 
mutually beneficial long-term relationships 
with its customers and clients. This means 
taking personal accountability for 
understanding their needs and providing them 
with products and services that meet those 
needs appropriately and help them manage 
their financial affairs.

As a transatlantic consumer, corporate and 
investment bank, Barclays also plays a critical 
role in promoting fair, open and transparent 
markets, as well as fostering shared growth 
for all. This means abiding by standards that 
in many cases are higher than those set by the 
laws and regulations that apply to the Group.

In 2017, aligned with the revised Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework (ERMF), the 
oversight of financial crime was transferred to 
conduct risk from operational risk.

Summary of performance in 
the period
Barclays is committed to continuing to drive 
the right culture throughout all levels of the 
organisation. Barclays will continue to 
enhance effective management of conduct 
risk and appropriately consider the relevant 
tools, governance and management 
information in decision-making processes. 
Focus on management of conduct risk is 
ongoing and the Group Dashboards are a 
key component of this. 

The Group continues to review the role and 
impact of conduct issues in the remuneration 
process at both the individual and business 
level.

Businesses have continued to assess the 
potential customer, client and market impacts 
of strategic change and structural reform. 
As part of the 2017 Medium-Term 
Planning Process, material conduct risks 
associated with strategic and financial 
plans were assessed. 

Throughout 2017, conduct risks were raised 
by businesses for consideration by the Board 
Reputation Committee (RepCo). RepCo 
reviewed the risks raised and whether 
management's proposed actions were 
appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. 
RepCo received regular updates with regards 
to key risks and issues including those relating 
to structural reform and regulatory change. 

The Group continued to incur significant costs 
in relation to litigation and conduct matters, 
please refer to Note 29 Legal, competition and 
regulatory matters and Note 27 Provisions, 
for further details. Costs include customer 
redress and remediation, as well as fines 
and settlements. Resolution of these matters 
remains a necessary and important part 
of delivering the Group's strategy and an 
ongoing commitment to improve oversight 
of culture and conduct.

The Board and Senior Management received 
Group Dashboards setting out key indicators 
in relation to conduct, culture, citizenship and 
complaints. These continue to be evolved and 
enhanced to allow effective oversight and 
decision-making. Barclays has operated at 
the overall set tolerance for conduct risk 
throughout 2017. The tolerance is assessed 
by the business through Key Indicators which 
are aggregated and provide an overall rating 
which is reported to the RepCo as part of the 
Conduct Dashboard.

Barclays remained focused on the continuous 
improvements being made to manage risk 
effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing 
governance and management information to 
help identify risks at earlier stages.

For further details on the non-financial 
performance measures, please refer to 
page 15 of the Strategic Report.

Risk performance
Conduct risk

Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from 
the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview
Reputation risk was re-designated as a 
Principal Risk under Barclays' Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework with effect from 
January 2017. 

Reputation risk may arise from any business 
decision or activity. It may also arise as a 
result of issues and incidents relevant to 
other Principal Risks, in particular other 
non-financial risks e.g. conduct or operational 
risk. Reputation risks and issues are identified 
via regular information gathering from within 
the business and from external stakeholders. 
Some risks and issues are specific to Barclays, 
while others are also relevant to the banking 
sector more generally. 

Barclays has set tolerances for reputation risk, 
which take into account the risks arising from 
specific events or decisions and longer-term 
strategic themes. The primary responsibility 
for managing reputation risk lies with each 
business and function, where there are 
processes in place to identify, assess and 
manage reputation risks and issues. 

There are circumstances, however, where 
it is necessary to escalate to Group level the 
evaluation of the reputation risk associated 
with particular decisions beyond an individual, 
business or function. The GRC is the most 
senior executive body responsible for 
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of Barclays' management of reputation risk.

Summary of performance in 
the period
Barclays is committed to identifying reputation 
risks and issues as early as possible and 
managing them appropriately. Throughout 
2017, reputation risks and issues were 
overseen by the Board Reputation Committee 
(RepCo), which reviews the processes and 
policies by which Barclays identifies and 
manages reputation risk. 

RepCo reviewed risks raised by the businesses 
and considered whether management's 
proposed actions, for example attaching 
conditions to proposed client transactions 
or increased engagement with impacted 
stakeholders, were appropriate to mitigate the 
risks effectively. RepCo also received regular 
updates with regard to key reputation risks 
and issues, including: legacy conduct issues; 
Barclays' association with sensitive sectors; 
cyber and data security; fraud and scams 
that could impact Barclays customers 
and the resilience of key Barclays systems 
and processes.

In 2017, the central reputation management 
team received 581 referrals from across 
the businesses (625 referrals in 2016) for 
consideration. These referrals covered a 
variety of sectors including, but not limited 
to, defence, fossil fuels and mining.

As part of Barclays 2017 Medium Term 
Planning process, material reputation risks 
associated with strategic and financial plans 
were also assessed.

The effectiveness of the supporting 
governance arrangements and management 
information, including the impact of other 
Principal Risks on Barclays' reputation, 
were reviewed by the Board and senior 
management during 2017. Following this, 
RepCo requested certain refinements to 
reputation risk reporting and processes, 
which are in progress.

Risk performance
Reputation risk

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm's 
integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees 
or the public. 

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Risk review

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 195

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Risk review

Overview
The Group conducts diverse activities in a 
highly regulated global market and therefore 
is exposed to the risk of loss or imposition of 
penalties, damages, fines, sanctions and other 
legal outcomes relating to a failure to meet 
its legal obligations in the conduct of its 
business. Legal risk encompasses the failure 
of the Group to appropriately escalate or 
manage contractual arrangements, litigation, 
intellectual property, competition/anti-trust 
issues, use of law firms and its contact 
with regulators. The multitude of laws and 
regulations pertaining to the Group's activities 
across the globe are by nature dynamic 
resulting in a level of legal risk that cannot 
be avoided. A Legal Risk Management 
Framework (LRMF) prescribes the 
requirements for identification, escalation, 
measurement and management of legal 
risk to support effective risk management 
across the Group.

Summary of performance in 
the period
In 2017, Barclays remained focused on 
continuous improvements to manage 
legal risk effectively, with an emphasis on 
enhancing governance to help identify risks 
at earlier stages and escalate as appropriate.

This is supported by the LRMF which includes 
legal risk tolerances, key indicators and 
governance. The LRMF is supported by legal 
risk policies and associated standards 
covering six areas of identified legal risk and 
mandatory minimum control requirements. 
For further information, see legal risk 
management on page 137. Legal risk policies 
and tolerances were reviewed and enhanced 
during 2017 to reflect the LRMF. 

Business and functions have progressed 
implementing the requirements outlined 
in the LRMF within their areas, including 
strengthening evaluation and monitoring of 
their legal risk profile. Mandatory training in 
relation to legal risk was rolled out across the 
Group in Q4 2017.

The Legal Function organisation and coverage 
model aligns expertise to businesses, 
functions, products, activities and geographic 
locations. It continues to provide legal 
support, oversight and challenge across 
the organisation, including advising on 
appropriate identification, management and 
escalation of legal risk and potential legal 
outcomes aligned to other Principal Risks. 
A legal risk oversight committee, as part 
of the Legal Executive Committee, meets 
on a quarterly basis to oversee, challenge 
and monitor legal risk across the Group. 

Overall, in 2017 significant progress has been 
made to implement legal risk as a new 
Principal Risk across the Group. As the LRMF 
matures, Barclays will continue to strengthen 
and embed consistent Group-wide processes 
to support management and monitoring of 
legal risk as well as drive continued education 
to support proactive identification and 
escalation of legal risk issues. 

Risk performance
Legal risk

Legal risk
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the 
firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Supervision of the Group 
The Group's operations, including its overseas 
branches, subsidiaries and associates, are 
subject to a large number of rules and 
regulations that are a condition for 
authorisations to conduct banking and 
financial services business in each of the 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates. 
These apply to business operations, impact 
financial returns and include capital, leverage 
and liquidity requirements, authorisation, 
registration and reporting requirements, 
restrictions on certain activities, conduct 
of business regulations and many others. 
These requirements are set in legislation and 
by the relevant central banks and regulatory 
authorities that authorise, regulate and 
supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in 
which it operates. Often, the requirements 
may reflect global standards developed by 
international bodies such as the G20, the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
(BCBS), the International Organisation of 
Securities Commissions (lOSCO) and the 
Financial Stability Board (FSB). Various bodies, 
such as central banks and self-regulatory 
organisations, also create voluntary Codes 
of Conduct which affect the way the Group 
does business. 

Regulatory developments impact the Group 
globally. We focus particularly on EU, UK and 
US regulation due to the location of Barclays' 
principal areas of business. Regulations 
elsewhere may also have a significant impact 
on Barclays due to the location of its branches, 
subsidiaries and, in some cases, clients. 
For more information on the risks related 
to supervision and regulation of the Group, 
including regulatory change, please see the 
Risk Factor entitled ‘Regulatory Change 
agenda and impact on Business Model' 
on page 122.

Supervision in the EU 
Financial regulation in the UK is to a 
significant degree shaped and influenced by 
EU legislation. This provides the structure of 
the European Single Market, an important 
feature of which is the framework for the 
regulation of authorised firms in the EU. This 
framework is designed to enable a credit 
institution or investment firm authorised in 
one EU member state to conduct banking or 
investment business in another member state 
through the establishment of branches or by 
the provision of services on a cross-border 
basis without the need for local authorisation. 
Barclays' operations in Europe are authorised 
and regulated by a combination of both home 
and host regulators. The impact of the UK's 
departure from the EU in this respect and, 
more broadly, its impact on the UK domestic 
regulatory framework, is yet to be determined. 

In the UK, the Bank of England (BoE) has 
responsibility for monitoring the UK financial 
system as a whole, including by way of 
conducting annual stress tests on UK banks. 
The day-to-day regulation and supervision of 
the Group is divided between the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (PRA) (a division  
of the BoE) and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 

In addition, the Financial Policy Committee 
(FPC) of the BoE has influence on the 
prudential requirements that may be imposed 
on the banking system through its powers of 
direction and recommendation. 

Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC 
are authorised and subject to solo prudential 
supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct 
regulation and supervision by the FCA. 
Barclays is also subject to prudential 
supervision by the PRA on a Group 
consolidated basis. Barclays Bank UK PLC's 
authorisation is subject to restrictions on 
activities expected to be lifted prior to April 
2018. Barclays Services Limited is an 
appointed representative of Barclays Bank PLC 
and Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (the 
principals). This status enables Barclays 
Services Limited to undertake activities which 
would otherwise require authorisation, with 
the principals assuming regulatory 
responsibility for the conduct of Barclays 
Services Limited as their appointed 
representative. Barclays Bank PLC's German, 
French and Italian branches are also subject to 
direct supervision by the European Central 
Bank (ECB). Barclays Bank Ireland PLC, which 
is licensed as a credit institution by the Central 
Bank of Ireland, has submitted an application 
for an extension of its current licence to 
support the Group's ability to provide services 
to EU clients after Brexit. 

In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to 
maintain the safety and soundness of financial 
institutions with the aim of strengthening, but 
not guaranteeing, the protection of customers 
and the financial system. The PRA's continuing 
supervision of financial institutions is 
conducted through a variety of regulatory 
tools, including the collection of information 
by way of prudential returns, reports obtained 
from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular 
meetings with management to discuss issues 
such as performance, risk management, 
conduct, culture and strategy.

The regulation and supervision of market 
conduct matters is the responsibility of the 
FCA. The FCA's regulation of the UK firms 
in the Group is carried out through a 
combination of continuous assessment, 
regular thematic work and project work based 
on the FCA's sector assessments, which 
analyse the different areas of the market and 
the risks that may lie ahead. 

Both the PRA and the FCA have continued to 
develop and apply a more assertive approach 
to supervision and the application of existing 
standards. This may include application of 
standards that either anticipate or go beyond 
requirements established by global or EU 
standards, whether in relation to capital, 
leverage and liquidity, resolvability and 
resolution or matters of conduct.

The FCA has retained an approach to 
enforcement based on credible deterrence 
that has seen significant growth in the size 
of regulatory fines. The approach appears 
to be trending towards a more US model of 
enforcement including vigorous enforcement 
of criminal and regulatory breaches, 
heightened fines and proposed measures 
related to increased corporate criminal liability.

The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk 
and on customer outcomes and will continue 
to do so. This has included a focus on the 
design and operation of products, the 
behaviour of customers and the operation of 
markets. This may affect both the incidence 
of conduct costs and increase the cost of 
remediation. 

The FCA and the PRA have also increasingly 
focused on individual accountability within 
firms. This focus is reflected in the Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime (the 
SMCR) which came into force in 2016. 
The SMCR, which implements the 
recommendations in the final report of the 
Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards relating to individual accountability 
in banks, imposes a regulatory approval, 
accountability and fitness and propriety 
framework in respect of senior or key 
individuals within relevant firms. 

The UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has played 
an active role in recent years in investigating 
and prosecuting complex fraud, bribery and 
corruption. If, as a result of an investigation, 
the SFO determines that it has sufficient 
evidence to support a realistic prospect of 
conviction, and to prosecute would be in the 
public interest, the SFO may bring forward 
a prosecution. Alternatively, the SFO may 
consider using a Deferred Prosecution 
Agreement (DPA). DPAs, which were 
introduced in February 2014, are judicially 
supervised agreements between the SFO 
and organisations that could be prosecuted 
whereby the SFO suspends prosecution while 
the organisation in question complies with 
conditions imposed on it by the DPA, such 
as the payment of fines.

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 197

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Supervision and regulation
Risk review

Supervision in the US 
Barclays' US activities and operations are 
subject to umbrella supervision by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(FRB), as well as additional supervision, 
requirements and restrictions imposed 
by other federal and state regulators. 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and their 
US branches and subsidiaries are subject 
to a comprehensive regulatory framework 
involving numerous statutes, rules and 
regulations, including the International 
Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act), the USA 
PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Commodity 
Exchange Act, the federal securities laws, 
and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (DFA), 
which comprehensively amended the 
regulation of financial institutions in the US in 
response to the financial crisis, including by 
amending the other aforementioned statutes. 
ln some cases, US requirements may impose 
restrictions on Barclays' global activities in 
addition to its activities in the US.

Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, along with 
Barclays US LLC (BUSL), Barclays' top-tier US 
holding company that holds substantially all of 
Barclays' US subsidiaries and assets (including 
Barclays Capital Inc. and Barclays Bank 
Delaware) are regulated as bank holding 
companies (BHCs) by the FRB. BUSL is subject 
to requirements that are similar to those 
applicable to large US domestic bank holding 
companies, including in respect of capital 
adequacy, capital planning and stress testing 
(including FRB non-objection to proposed 
capital distributions), risk management and 
governance, liquidity, leverage limits and 
financial regulatory reporting. Barclays Bank 
PLC's US branches are also subject to enhanced 
prudential supervision requirements relating to, 
among others, liquidity and risk management.

Because the BHC Act generally restricts the 
activities of BHCs to banking and activities 
closely related to banking, Barclays PLC, 
Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL have elected to 
be treated as financial holding companies 
under the BHC Act. Financial holding 
company status allows these entities to 
engage in a variety of financial and related 
activities, directly or through subsidiaries, 
including underwriting, dealing and market 
making in securities. Failure to maintain 
financial holding company status could result 
in increasingly stringent penalties and 
ultimately, in the closure or cessation of 
certain operations in the US. To qualify as 
a financial holding company, Barclays PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC, as foreign banking 
organisations and BHCs, and BUSL, as a BHC, 
must maintain certain regulatory capital ratios 
above minimum requirements and must be 
deemed to be ‘well managed' for US bank 
regulatory purposes. In addition, any US 
depository institution subsidiaries of the 
foreign banking organisation or BHC must 
also maintain certain regulatory capital ratios 
above minimum requirements and be deemed 
to be ‘well managed' and must have at least a 
‘satisfactory' rating under the Community 
Reinvestment Act of 1977.

In addition to umbrella oversight by the FRB 
(and applicable Federal Reserve Banks), 
certain of Barclays' branches and subsidiaries 
are regulated by additional authorities based 
on the location or activities of those entities. 
The New York and Florida branches of 
Barclays Bank PLC are subject to extensive 
supervision and regulation by, as applicable, 
the New York State Department of Financial 
Services (NYSDFS) and the Florida Office of 
Financial Regulation. Barclays Bank Delaware, 
a Delaware chartered commercial bank, is 
subject to supervision and regulation by 
the Delaware Office of the State Bank 
Commissioner. The deposits of Barclays Bank 
Delaware are insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) pursuant to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which also 
provides for FDIC supervisory authority over 
Barclays Bank Delaware and requires that 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL act 
as a source of strength for the insured bank. 
This could, among other things, require these 
entities to inject capital into Barclays Bank 
Delaware if it fails to meet applicable 
regulatory capital requirements.

Barclays' US securities broker/dealer and 
investment banking operations, primarily 
conducted through Barclays Capital Inc., 
are also subject to ongoing supervision and 
regulation by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry 
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and other 
government agencies and self-regulatory 
organisations (SROs) as part of a 
comprehensive scheme of regulation of all 
aspects of the securities and commodities 
business under US federal and state 
securities laws.

Similarly, Barclays' US commodity futures, 
commodity options and swaps-related and 
client clearing operations are subject to 
ongoing supervision and regulation by the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(CFTC), the National Futures Association 
and other SROs. Barclays Bank PLC is also 
prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer so 
is subject to the FRB swaps rules with respect 
to margin and capital requirements.

Barclays' US retail and consumer activities, 
including the US credit card operations of 
Barclays Bank Delaware, are subject to direct 
supervision and regulation by the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB 
has the authority to examine and take 
enforcement action related to compliance 
with federal laws and regulations regarding 
the provision of consumer financial services 
and the prohibition of ‘unfair, deceptive or 
abusive acts and practices'.

Supervision in Asia Pacific
Barclays' operations in Asia Pacific are 
supervised and regulated by a broad range 
of national regulators including: the Japan 
Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Hong 
Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Reserve 
Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India and the People's Bank of China, 
China's State Administration of Foreign 
Exchange and the China Banking Regulatory 
Commission. Such supervision and regulation 
extends to activities conducted through 
branches of Barclays Bank PLC in the 
Asia Pacific region as well as subsidiaries 
of the Group.

Global regulatory developments 
Regulatory change continues to affect all large 
financial institutions. Such change emanates 
from global institutions such as the G20, 
FSB, IOSCO and BCBS, the EU regionally, and 
national regulators, especially in the UK and 
US. The level of regulatory and supervisory 
uncertainty faced by the Group and the 
financial markets more broadly continues to 
remain elevated in our primary markets. In the 
EU, the legislative and regulatory bodies have 
been implementing, and continue to propose, 
multiple financial regulatory reforms, and the 
conditions of the UK's eventual exit from the 
EU remain unclear. As a result, the extent to 
which the UK will continue to follow EU 
legislation after Brexit remains unclear. In the 
US, the financial regulatory environment 
continues to evolve due to political 
developments and the ongoing 
implementation of regulations arising from 
the DFA. Furthermore, the application of 
various regional rules on a cross-border basis 
increases regulatory complexity for global 
financial institutions. For more information, 
please see the Risk Factor entitled ‘Regulatory 
Change agenda and impact on Business 
Model' on page 122.

The programme of reform of the global 
regulatory framework previously agreed by 
G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has 
continued to be taken forward throughout 
2017. The G20 continues to monitor emerging 
risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system 
and has stated that it will take action to 
address them if necessary. 

The FSB has been designated by the G20 as 
the body responsible for co-ordinating the 
delivery of the global reform programme in 
relation to the financial services industry. It 
has focused particularly on the risks posed by 
systemically important financial institutions. In 
2011, G20 Heads of Government adopted FSB 
proposals to reform the regulation of global 
systemically important financial institutions 
(G-SIFls), including global systemically 
important banks (G-SIBs), such as Barclays. In 
December 2017, the BCBS finalised ‘Basel III' 
(the BCBS international regulatory framework 
for banks), with the majority of the December 
2017 changes expected to be implemented by 
1 January 2022, including by regulators in 
many jurisdictions where Barclays operates.

198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial regulatory framework
Financial services regulation can broadly 
be categorised as follows: (a) prudential 
regulation, which aims to promote safety and 
soundness of financial institutions and reduce 
risk in the financial system; (b) recovery and 
resolution, a key aspect of which is to ensure 
that G-SIFls are capable of being resolved 
without recourse to taxpayer support and 
minimising market disruption; (c) structural 
reform and the Volcker rule; (d) market 
infrastructure regulation, aimed at enhancing 
client protection, financial stability and 
market integrity; and (e) conduct, culture 
and other regulation. 

(a) Prudential regulation 
Certain Basel III standards were implemented 
in EU law through the Capital Requirements 
Directive IV (CRD IV), which came into effect 
in 2014 and included new or enhanced 
requirements for the quality and quantity of 
capital, liquidity and leverage. Beyond the 
minimum standards required by CRD IV, the 
PRA has expected Barclays, in common with 
other major UK banks and building societies, 
to meet a 7% Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 
ratio at the level of the consolidated group 
since 1 January 2016. 

G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional 
prudential requirements, including the 
requirement to hold additional loss absorbing 
capacity and additional capital buffers above 
the level required by Basel III standards. 
The level of G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB 
according to a bank's systemic importance 
and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk 
weighted assets. The G-SIB buffer must 
be met with common equity. 

In November 2017, the FSB published an 
update to its list of G-SIBs, maintaining the 
1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to Barclays. 
The additional G-SIB buffer has been phased 
in from January 2016, from when G-SIBs were 
required to meet 25% of their designated 
buffer. This increased to 50% in 2017, 75% 
in 2018 and will increase to 100% in January 
2019. Barclays is also subject to, among other 
buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) 
based on rates determined by the regulatory 
authorities in each jurisdiction in which 
Barclays maintains exposures. These rates 
may vary in either direction. On 27 June 2017, 
the FPC raised the UK CCyB rate from 0% to 
0.5% with binding effect from 27 June 2018. In 
November 2017, the FPC raised the UK CCyB 
rate from 0.5% to 1% with binding effect from 
28 November 2018. In May 2016, the FPC set 
out a framework for determining a systemic 
risk buffer (SRB) for ring-fenced bodies and 
large building societies (SRB firms). The SRB is 
a firm-specific buffer, that is designed to 
increase the capacity of SRB firms to absorb 
stress, and which must be met solely with 
CET1. The framework set out by the PRA, 
which sets SRB at rates between 0% and 
3% of risk weighted assets, will apply from 
1 January 2019. 

In January 2016, the BCBS endorsed a new 
market risk framework, including rules made 
as a result of its ‘fundamental review of the 
trading book' (FRTB). The implementation of 
this framework has now been delayed, with 
the BCBS setting an expected implementation 
date of 1 January 2022 to allow for a review of 
the calibration of the framework. 

The BCBS's finalisation of Basel III, noted 
above, among other things, eliminated 
model-based approaches for certain 
categories of risk weighted assets (RWAs), 
(for example, operational risk RWAs, CVA 
volatility and credit risk RWAs for equity 
exposures), revised the standardised 
approach's risk weights for a variety of 
exposure categories, replaced the four current 
approaches for operational risk (including the 
advanced measurement approach) with a 
single standardised measurement approach, 
established 72.5% of standardised approach 
RWAs for exposure categories as a floor for 
RWAs calculated under advanced approaches 
(referred to as the ‘output floor'), and for 
G-SIBs introduced a leverage ratio buffer in an 
amount equal to 50% of the applicable G-SIB 
buffer used for RWA purposes (meaning, for 
Barclays, a leverage ratio buffer of 0.75%). 
The majority of the final Basel III changes are 
expected to be implemented commencing 
1 January 2022, with a five-year phase-in 
period for the output floor. 

The BCBS has also published final standards 
on the securitisation framework and interest 
rate risk in the banking book and guidelines 
on step-in risk. The final standards for 
measuring and controlling large exposures 
were published by the BCBS in April 2014 to 
take effect in 2019. In November 2016, the 
European Commission adopted a proposal 
(commonly referred to as CRD V) to begin 
the legislative process for introducing these 
standards within the EU. These proposals, 
if implemented in their current form, would, 
among other things, implement FRTB by 
overhauling existing rules relating to 
standardised and advanced market risk and 
the rules governing the inclusion of positions 
in the regulatory trading book. The proposals 
would also enhance rules for counterparty 
credit risk, in line with BCBS proposals 
finalised in 2014, strengthen requirements 
relating to leverage and large exposures and 
introduce a net stable funding ratio (NSFR), 
requiring banks to fund their assets with 
stable sources of funds. CRD V also proposes 
to require that where (i) two or more credit 
institutions or investment firms established in 
the EU have a common parent undertaking 
established outside the EU and (ii) the group 
has been identified as a G-SIB or has entities 
in the EU (whether subsidiaries or branches) 
with total assets of at least €30 billion, the 
group must establish an intermediate parent 
undertaking, authorised and established in, 
and subject to the supervision of, an EU 
member state. 

IFRS 9 (an accounting standard that covers 
accounting for financial instruments), which 
was adopted into EU law by the European 
Commission in November 2016, came into 
force on 1 January 2018. In October 2016, the 
BCBS issued two documents on the treatment 
of accounting provisions in the regulatory 
framework, to take account of the future 
move to expected credit loss provisioning 
under IFRS and Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (FASB) standards. One paper 
considered transitional arrangements to phase 
in the immediate capital impact of the new 
provisioning standards, while the other 
discussed more fundamental changes to the 
recognition of provisions in regulatory capital 
and changes to the risk weighting framework. 
The BCBS then published an interim approach 
(including transitional arrangements) on 
29 March 2017, retaining the current 
regulatory treatment of provisions under the 
Basel framework for an interim period and 
proposing to consider more thoroughly the 
longer term regulatory treatment of 
provisions. On 28 December 2017, an EU 
Regulation came into force to provide 
transitional arrangements for mitigating 
the impact of the introduction of IFRS 9, 
largely in relation to CET1 capital arising from 
the expected credit loss accounting measures 
set out in IFRS 9. The Regulation has applied 
since 1 January 2018. 

In the US, BUSL and Barclays Bank PLC's US 
branches are subject to enhanced prudential 
supervision requirements as required by the 
DFA and described above in ‘Supervision 
in the US'. 

In addition to prudential regulations already 
promulgated under the DFA, the FRB has 
issued proposed regulations for NSFR 
implementation. The NSFR, as proposed by 
the FRB, would apply to US bank holding 
companies with more than $250bn in total 
assets or $10bn or more in on-balance sheet 
foreign exposures, including BUSL, and 
consolidated depositary institution 
subsidiaries of such banking organisations 
with more than $10bn in assets, including 
Barclays Bank Delaware. Under the proposed 
rule, such entities would be required to 
maintain a minimum level of available stable 
funding that equals or exceeds the amount 
of required stable funding over a one-year 
period. Although the proposal provides for an 
effective date of 1 January 2018, the FRB has 
not finalised its NSFR proposal and the 
schedule for finalisation is uncertain. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 199

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Supervision and regulation
Risk review

Stress testing
The Group and certain of its members are 
subject to supervisory stress testing exercises 
in a number of jurisdictions. These exercises 
currently include the annual stress testing 
programmes of the BoE, the FDIC and the FRB 
and the biannual stress testing programme 
of the EBA. These exercises are designed to 
assess the resilience of banks to adverse 
economic or financial developments and 
ensure that they have robust, forward-looking 
capital planning processes that account for 
the risks associated with their business profile. 
Assessment by regulators is on both a 
quantitative and qualitative basis, the latter 
focusing on the Group's data provision, stress 
testing capability and internal management 
processes and controls. Failure to meet 
requirements of regulatory stress tests, or the 
failure by regulators to approve the stress test 
results and capital plans of the Group or its 
members subject to these exercises, could 
result in the Group or certain of its members 
being required to enhance its capital position 
or limit capital distributions, to any external 
holders of its equity or capital or within 
the Group. 

In the US, certain financial institution 
intermediate holding companies formed in 
2016, including BUSL, were not required to 
participate in the FRB's Comprehensive Capital 
Analysis and Review (CCAR) process in 2017. 
These firms, however, were required under the 
FRB's capital plan rule to submit a capital plan 
to the FRB that was subject to a confidential 
review process based on the assessment 
criteria in the capital plan rule. These capital 
plans were not subject to the FRB's 
quantitative assessment, which evaluates a 
firm's ability to meet its capital requirements 
under stress, under CCAR or supervisory 
stress testing in 2017.

(b) Recovery and Resolution 
Stabilisation and resolution framework
An important component of the EU legislative 
framework is the 2014 Bank Recovery and 
Resolution Directive (BRRD) which establishes 
a framework for the recovery and resolution of 
EU credit institutions and investment firms. 
The UK implemented the BRRD through the 
Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2014, 
which amended the Banking Act 2009 (the 
Banking Act) and the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), and the Banks 
and Building Societies (Depositor Preference 
and Priorities) Order 2014, which amended 
the Insolvency Act 1986 (among other 
insolvency legislation).

Under the Banking Act, UK resolution 
authorities are empowered to intervene 
in and resolve a UK financial institution that 
is no longer viable. Pursuant to these laws, 
the BoE (in consultation with the PRA and 
HM Treasury as appropriate) has several 
stabilisation options where a banking 
institution is failing or likely to fail: (i) transfer 
some or all of the securities or business of the 
bank to a commercial purchaser; (ii) transfer 
some or all of the property, rights and 
liabilities of the bank to a ‘bridge bank' wholly 
owned by the BoE or to a commercial 
purchaser; (iii) transfer the impaired or 
problem assets to an asset management 
vehicle to allow them to be managed over 
time; (iv) cancel or reduce certain liabilities of 
the institution or convert liabilities to equity to 
absorb losses and recapitalise the institution 
and (v) transfer the banking institution into 
temporary public ownership. In addition, the 
BoE may apply for a court insolvency order in 
order to wind up or liquidate the institution 
or to put the institution into special 
administration. When exercising any of its 
stabilisation powers, the BoE must generally 
provide that shareholders bear first losses, 
followed by creditors in accordance with the 
priority of their claims under normal 
insolvency proceedings. 

In order to enable the exercise of its 
stabilisation powers, the BoE may impose a 
temporary stay on the rights of creditors to 
terminate, accelerate or close out contracts, 
and in some cases to override events of 
default or termination rights that might 
otherwise be invoked as a result of a 
resolution action. In addition, the Banking Act 
gives the BoE the power to override, vary, or 
impose conditions or contractual obligations 
between a UK bank, its holding company and 
its group undertakings, in order to enable any 
transferee or successor bank to operate 
effectively after any of the resolution tools 
have been applied. There is also power for 
HM Treasury to amend the law (excluding 
provisions made by or under the Banking 
Act) for the purpose of enabling it to use 
its powers under this regime effectively, 
potentially with retrospective effect. The 
Banking Act powers apply regardless of any 
contractual restrictions and compensation 
that may be payable.

In July 2016, the PRA issued final rules on 
ensuring operational continuity in resolution. 
The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 
and will require banks to ensure that their 
operational structures facilitate effective 
recovery and resolution planning and the 
continued provision of functions critical to 
the economy in a resolution scenario. 

In November 2016, the European Commission 
proposed a package of amendments to the 
BRRD, including the introduction of two new 
moratorium tools. On 28 December 2017, an 
EU directive came into force harmonising 
the priority ranking of unsecured debt 
instruments under national insolvency 
laws. EU member states are required to 
transpose the directive into national law 
by 29 December 2018. 

The BoE's preferred approach for the 
resolution of the Group is a bail-in strategy 
with a single point of entry at Barclays PLC. 
Under such a strategy, Barclays PLC's 
subsidiaries would remain operational while 
Barclays PLC's eligible liabilities would be 
written down or converted to equity in order 
to recapitalise the Group and allow for the 
continued provision of services and operations 
throughout the resolution. 

While regulators in many jurisdictions have 
indicated a preference for single point of entry 
resolution, additional resolution or bankruptcy 
provisions may apply to certain of Barclays 
Bank PLC's subsidiaries or branches. In the 
US, Title II of the DFA established the Orderly 
Liquidation Authority, a regime for orderly 
liquidation of systemically important financial 
institutions, which could apply to BUSL. 
Specifically, when a systemically important 
financial institution is in default or in danger of 
default, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver 
under the Orderly Liquidation Authority 
instead of the institution being resolved 
through a voluntary or involuntary proceeding 
under the US Bankruptcy Code. In certain 
circumstances, including insolvency, violations 
of law and unsafe business practices, the 
licensing authorities of each US branch of 
Barclays Bank PLC and of Barclays Bank 
Delaware have the authority to take 
possession of the business and property of 
the applicable Barclays entity they license or 
to revoke or suspend such licence. Specific 
resolution regimes may apply to certain 
Barclays entities or branches in other 
jurisdictions in which Barclays does business.

TLAC and MREL
The BRRD requires competent authorities to 
impose a Minimum Requirement for own 
funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL) on 
financial institutions to facilitate their orderly 
resolution without broader financial disruption 
or recourse to public funds. Following the 
finalisation of the BRRD, in November 2015, 
the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the 
loss absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure 
that there is sufficient loss absorbing and 
recapitalisation capacity available in resolution 
to implement an orderly resolution which 
minimises the impact on financial stability, 
ensures the continuity of critical functions and 
avoids exposing taxpayers to losses. To this 
end, the FSB has set a new minimum 
requirement for ‘total loss absorbing capacity' 
(TLAC). As the TLAC standard requires a 
certain amount of those loss absorbing 
resources to be committed to subsidiaries or 
sub-groups that are located in host 
jurisdictions and deemed material for the 
resolution of the G-SIB as a whole, the FSB 
published guiding principles on internal TLAC 
on 6 July 2017. These provide guidance on the 
size and composition of the internal TLAC 
requirement, cooperation and co-ordination 
between home and host authorities and the 
trigger mechanism for internal TLAC.

200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The EU has proposed to implement the 
TLAC standard (including internal TLAC) 
via the MREL requirement and the European 
Commission has proposed amendments in 
its CRD V proposal to achieve this. As the 
proposals remain in draft, it is uncertain what 
the final requirements and timing will be. 
Under the BoE's statement of policy on 
MREL, the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs as 
necessary to implement the TLAC standard 
and institution or group-specific MREL 
requirements will depend on the preferred 
resolution strategy for that institution or 
group. The MREL requirements will be phased 
in from 1 January 2019 and will be fully 
implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time 
G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in 
the UK, including Barclays, will be required to 
meet an MREL equivalent to the higher of (i) 
two times the sum of its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A 
requirements or (ii) the higher of two times its 
leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures. 
However, the PRA will review the MREL 
calibration by the end of 2020, including 
assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A 
recapitalisation which may drive a different 
1 January 2022 MREL requirement than 
currently proposed. In addition, it is proposed 
that CET1 capital cannot be counted towards 
both MREL and the combined buffer 
requirement (CBR), meaning that the CBR will 
effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 
and Pillar 2A requirements relating to own 
funds and MREL. 

In October 2016, the BCBS published its final 
standard on the prudential treatment of banks' 
investments in TLAC instruments issued by 
other institutions, confirming that 
internationally active banks (both G-SIBs and 
non-G-SIBs) must deduct their holdings of 
TLAC instruments that do not otherwise qualify 
as regulatory capital from their own Tier 2 
capital. Where the investing bank owns less 
than 10% of the issuing bank's common shares, 
TLAC holdings are to be deducted from Tier 2 
capital only to the extent that they exceed 10% 
of the investing bank's common equity (or 5% 
for non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings); 
below this threshold, holdings would instead be 
subjected to risk-weighting. G-SIBs may only 
apply risk-weighting to non-regulatory capital 
TLAC holdings by the 5% threshold where 
those holdings are in the trading book and are 
sold within 30 business days. 

In December 2016, the FRB issued final 
regulations for TLAC, which apply to BUSL. 
The FRB's final TLAC rule, while generally 
following the FSB term sheet, contains a 
number of provisions that are more restrictive. 
For example, the FRB's TLAC rule includes 
provisions that require BUSL (the Barclays IHC) 
to have (i) a specified outstanding amount of 
eligible long-term debt, (ii) a specified 
outstanding amount of TLAC (consisting of 
common and preferred equity regulatory 
capital plus eligible long-term debt), and (iii) a 
specified common equity buffer. In addition, 
the FRB's TLAC rule would prohibit BUSL, for 
so long as the Group's overall resolution plan 
treats BUSL as a non-resolution entity, from 
issuing TLAC to entities other than the Group 
and its non-US subsidiaries. 

Bank Levy
The BRRD requires EU member states to 
establish a pre-funded resolution financing 
arrangement with funding equal to 1% of 
covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to 
cover the costs of bank resolutions. Where 
the amount of such pre-funding is insufficient, 
the BRRD requires that EU member states 
raise subsequent contributions. The UK 
government raises both pre-funded and 
subsequent contributions that would be 
required were the pre-funded contributions 
not to cover costs or other expenses incurred 
by use of the resolution funds by way of a 
tax on the balance sheets of banks known 
as the ‘Bank Levy'. 

Recovery and Resolution Planning
The PRA has made rules that require 
authorised firms to draw up recovery plans 
and resolution packs, as required by the 
BRRD. Recovery plans are designed to outline 
credible actions that authorised firms could 
implement in the event of severe stress in 
order to restore their business to a stable 
and sustainable condition. The resolution 
pack contains detailed information on the 
authorised firm in question which will be used 
to develop resolution strategies for that firm, 
assess its current level of resolvability against 
the strategy, and to inform work on identifying 
barriers to the implementation of operational 
resolution plans. In the UK, recovery and 
resolution planning (RRP) work is considered 
part of continuing supervision. Removal of 
potential impediments to an orderly resolution 
of the Group or one or more of its subsidiaries 
is considered as part of the BoE's and PRA's 
supervisory strategy for each firm, and the 
PRA can require firms to make significant 
changes in order to enhance resolvability. 
Barclays currently provides the PRA with a 
recovery plan annually and with a resolution 
pack every other year. 

In the US, Title I of the DFA and the 
implementing regulations issued by the FRB 
and the FDIC require each bank holding 
company with assets of $50 billion or more, 
including Barclays, to prepare and submit 
annually a plan for the orderly resolution of 
subsidiaries and operations in the event of 
future material financial distress or failure. 
Barclays' next submission will be due on  
1 July 2018.

Similar requirements (which include powers 
for competent authorities to adopt resolution 
measures) are in force or expected to come 
into force imminently in various other 
jurisdictions which will affect the Group 
to the extent it has operations in a relevant 
jurisdiction.  

(c) Structural reform and the Volcker rule 
Recent developments in banking law and 
regulation in the UK have included legislation 
designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller 
deposit-taking businesses of large banks. The 
Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 
put in place a framework for this ring-fencing 
and secondary legislation passed in 2014 
elaborated on the operation and application of 
the ring-fence. Ring-fencing will require, 
among other things, the separation of the 
retail and smaller deposit-taking business 
activities of UK banks in the UK and branches 
of UK banks in the European Economic Area 
(EEA) into a legally distinct, operationally 
separate and economically independent entity, 
which will not be permitted to undertake a 
range of activities from 1 January 2019. 
Ring-fencing rules have been published by 
the PRA, further determining how ring-fenced 
banks will be permitted to operate. Further 
rules published by the FCA set out the 
disclosures that non-ring-fenced banks are 
required to make to prospective account 
holders of non-ring-fenced banks who are 
individuals. Barclays' approach to compliance 
with the terms of the UK ring-fencing regime 
is described in the section titled ‘Structural 
reform' on page 204. 

US regulation places further substantive limits 
on the activities that may be conducted by 
banks and holding companies, including 
foreign banking organisations such as 
Barclays. The ‘Volcker Rule', which was part of 
the DFA and which came into effect in the US 
in 2015, prohibits banking entities from 
undertaking certain proprietary trading 
activities and limits such entities' ability to 
sponsor or invest in certain private equity 
funds and hedge funds (in each case broadly 
defined). As required by the rule, Barclays has 
developed and implemented an extensive 
compliance and monitoring programme 
addressing proprietary trading and covered 
fund activities (both inside and outside 
of the US). 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 201

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Supervision and regulation
Risk review

(d) Market infrastructure regulation
In recent years, regulators have focused 
on improving transparency and reducing 
risk in markets, particularly risks related 
to over-the-counter (OTC) transactions. 
This focus has resulted in a variety of new 
regulations across the G20 countries and 
beyond that require or encourage on-venue 
trading, clearing, posting of margin and 
disclosure of information related to many 
derivatives transactions. Some of the most 
significant developments are described below.

The European Market Infrastructure 
Regulation (EMIR) has introduced 
requirements designed to improve 
transparency and reduce the risks associated 
with the derivatives market, some of which 
are still to be fully implemented. EMIR requires 
that certain entities that enter into derivative 
contracts: report such transactions; clear 
certain over the counter (OTC) transactions 
where mandated to do so; and implement risk 
mitigation standards in respect of uncleared 
OTC trades. The obligation to clear derivatives 
only applies to certain counterparties and 
specified types of derivatives. In October 2016, 
the European Commission adopted a 
delegated regulation relating to the exchange 
of collateral, one of the risk mitigation 
techniques under EMIR. Provisions relating to 
initial margin have entered into force, subject 
to a phase-in until 1 September 2020. 
Provisions relating to variation margin have 
already entered into force. EMIR has potential 
operational and financial impacts on the 
Group, including by imposing collateral 
requirements. 

The European Commission has recently 
proposed various technical changes to EMIR, 
some of which could result in certain central 
counterparties (CCPs) used by the Group 
being forced to relocate to a Eurozone 
jurisdiction. The changes proposed may have 
additional operational and financial impacts 
on the Group's derivatives business. 

CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying 
higher capital requirements for bilateral, 
uncleared OTC derivative trades. Lower capital 
requirements for cleared derivative trades are 
only available if the CCP through which the 
trade is cleared is recognised as a ‘qualifying 
central counterparty' (QCCP) which has been 
authorised or recognised under EMIR. Higher 
capital requirements may apply to the Group 
following the UK's departure from the EU, if 
UK CCPs are then no longer regarded as 
QCCPs and vice versa. 

The new Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive and Markets in Financial Instruments 
Regulation (collectively referred to as 
MiFID II) have largely been applicable since 
3 January 2018. MiFID II affects many of the 
investment markets in which the Group 
operates, the instruments in which it trades 
and the way it transacts with market 
counterparties and other customers. Changes 
introduced by MiFID II include: the 
introduction of a new type of trading venue 
(the organised trading facility), capturing 
non-equity trading that falls outside the MiFID 
I regime; the strengthening of conduct of 
business requirements, including in relation to 
conflicts of interest; the expansion of the 
concept of, and requirements applicable to, 
firms which systematically trade against 
proprietary capital (systematic internalisers); 
and increased obligations on firms to secure 
best execution for their clients. Additionally, 
MiFID II mandates a trading obligation for 
certain types of cleared derivatives. 

MiFID II strengthens investor protections, 
imposes new curbs on high frequency and 
commodity trading, increases pre- and 
post-trade transparency and introduces a new 
regime for third country (non-EU) firms. MiFID 
II also includes new requirements relating to 
non-discriminatory access to trading venues, 
central counterparties and benchmarks, 
research unbundling and harmonised 
supervisory powers and sanctions 
across the EU.

Some final rules and guidance on the 
application of MiFID II are yet to be published, 
therefore, we anticipate continuing 
development of application of the rules within 
the market into 2018. 

US regulators have imposed similar rules 
as the EU with respect to the mandatory 
on-venue trading and clearing of certain 
derivatives, and post-trade transparency, as 
well as in relation to the margining of OTC 
derivatives. US regulators have addressed the 
applicability of certain of their regulations to 
cross-border transactions, and are continuing 
to review and consider their rules with respect 
to their application on a cross-border basis, 
including with respect to their registration 
requirements in relation to non-US swap 
dealers and security-based swap dealers. The 
regulators may adopt further rules, or provide 
further guidance, regarding the cross-border 
applicability of such rules. In December 2017, 
the CFTC and the European Commission 
recognised the trading venues of each other's 
jurisdiction to allow market participants to 
comply with mandatory on-venue trading 
requirements while trading on certain venues 
recognised by the other jurisdiction. 

The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into 
force in June 2016. Although some provisions 
have applied since 2016, the majority of 
provisions have applied since 3 January 2018 
(subject to transitional provisions). This 
regulation applies to the administration, 
contribution of data to and use of benchmarks 
within the EU. Financial institutions within the 
EU will be prohibited from using benchmarks 
unless their administrators are authorised, 
registered or otherwise recognised in the EU. 
This may impact the ability of Barclays to use 
certain benchmarks in the future. 

In 2015, the European Commission launched 
work on establishing a Capital Markets Union 
(CMU) within the EU. The CMU aims to 
increase the availability of non-bank financing 
in the EU, deepen the EU single market for 
financial services and promote growth and 
financial stability. The CMU work programme 
is now being considered in light of Brexit. 
Recent proposals have therefore included 
considerably broadened central supervisory 
powers for the European Supervisory 
Authorities (ESAs) (including in relation to 
outsourcing, and delegation and risk transfer 
by entities authorised in the EU to entities or 
branches in third countries) and an increased 
focus by the ESAs on ongoing equivalence 
assessments in the context of third 
country regimes in various EU regulations 
and directives. 

Certain participants in US swap markets are 
required to register with the CFTC as ‘swap 
dealers' or ‘major swap participants' and/or, 
following the compliance date for relevant 
SEC rules, with the SEC as ‘security-based 
swap dealers' or ‘major security-based swap 
participants'. Such registrants are subject to 
CFTC, and would be subject to SEC regulation 
and oversight. The SEC finalised the rules 
governing security based swap dealer 
registration in 2015 but clarified that 
registration timing is contingent upon the 
finalisation of certain additional rules under 
Title VII of DFA, several of which are still 
pending. Additional SEC rules governing 
security-based swap transactions, including 
security-based swap reporting, will become 
effective after the security-based swap dealer 
registration date. Entities required to register 
are subject to business conduct, record-
keeping and reporting requirements and will 
be subject to capital and margin requirements 
in connection with transactions with certain 
US and non-US counterparties. Barclays Bank 
PLC has provisionally registered with the CFTC 
as a swap dealer and is subject to CFTC rules 
on business conduct, record-keeping and 
reporting. With respect to margin and capital, 
Barclays is subject to the rules of the FRB in 
connection with its swap dealer business.  

202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The CFTC has approved certain comparability 
determinations that permit substituted 
compliance with non-US regulatory regimes 
for certain swap regulations related to 
business conduct and other requirements, 
while other determinations remain pending. 
Most recently, in October 2017, the CFTC 
issued an order permitting substituted 
compliance with EU margin rules for certain 
uncleared derivatives. However, as Barclays is 
subject to the margin rules of the FRB, it will 
not benefit from the CFTC's action unless the 
FRB takes a similar approach. The CFTC has 
stated that its transaction-level rules (such as 
margin and documentation requirements) 
would apply to certain transactions entered 
into between a non-US swap dealer and a 
non-US counterparty, if the transactions are 
arranged, negotiated or executed by personnel 
in the US, but has delayed the compliance 
date for this requirement until the effective 
date of future CFTC action addressing the way 
in which each transaction-level requirement 
must be applied. 

It is unclear whether further changes will be 
made to the CFTC's proposed rules or when 
they will become effective. In addition, it is 
uncertain whether and to what degree other 
US regulators, such as the FRB, will take an 
approach similar to the CFTC's regarding 
substituted compliance.

(e) Conduct, culture and other regulation
Conduct and culture
On 7 March 2016, the PRA and FCA 
introduced measures to increase the 
individual accountability of senior managers 
and other covered individuals in the banking 
sector. The new regime comprises the 
‘Senior Managers Regime', which applies to 
a limited number of individuals with senior 
management responsibilities within a firm, the 
‘Certification Regime', which is intended to 
assess and monitor the fitness and propriety 
of a wider range of employees who could pose 
a risk of significant harm to the firm or its 
customers, and conduct rules that individuals 
subject to either regime must comply with. 
From March 2017, the conduct rules have 
applied more widely to other staff of firms 
within the scope of the regime. The Financial 
Services Act 2010, among other things, 
requires the UK regulators to make rules about 
remuneration and to require regulated firms to 
have a remuneration policy that is consistent 
with effective risk management. 

The Banking Act also amended FSMA to allow 
the FCA to make rules requiring firms to 
operate a collective consumer redress scheme 
to deal with cases of widespread failure by 
regulated firms to meet regulatory 
requirements that may have created 
consumer detriment. 

Our regulators have also enhanced their focus 
on the promotion of cultural values as a key 
area for banks, although they generally view 
the responsibility for reforming culture as 
primarily sitting with the industry. 

Data protection and PSD2
Barclays has to comply with national data 
protection laws, governing the collection, use 
and disclosure of personal data, in a majority 
of the countries in which it operates. From 
25 May 2018, data protection laws throughout 
the EU will be replaced by a single General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which 
enhances the rights and protections available 
to data subjects. The UK government has 
confirmed the UK will adopt and apply the 
GDPR from May 2018 and a bill has been 
published to implement GDPR. The impact 
across Barclays will be significant, affecting 
not only Group entities operating and 
processing personal data within the EU but 
also those outside the EU offering goods or 
services to, or monitoring, individuals within 
the EU. The GDPR contains significant 
financial penalties for data protection 
breaches and non-compliance, of up to 
4% of Group global turnover. 

A number of recent developments have 
indicated a clear political and regulatory desire 
to make customer transactional account 
information more easily accessible to 
customers and parties providing services to 
them, such as the revised Payment Services 
Directive (PSD2) (which, in accordance with 
the requirements under that Directive, must 
have been implemented by 13 January 2018). 
In addition to attempting to harmonise 
conduct rules for all providers of electronic 
payment services in the EU, PSD2 also creates 
a new prudential authorisation regime for 
non-bank payment services providers. PSD2 
replaces the previous Payment Services 
Directive, and has a wider scope, applying 
transparency and information requirements to 
payment transactions in all currencies where 
the provider of at least one leg of the payment 
service is located in the EU.

Cyber security 
Regulators in the EU and US have been 
increasingly focused on cyber security risk 
management for banking organisations and 
have proposed laws and regulations and other 
requirements that necessitate implementation 
of a variety of increased controls for regulated 
Barclays entities. These include, among 
others, the adoption of cyber security policies 
and procedures meeting specified criteria, 
minimum required security measures, 
enhanced reporting, compliance certification 
requirements and other cyber and information 
risk governance measures. When 
implemented, the proposals may increase 
technology and compliance costs for Barclays. 

Sanctions and financial crime
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new 
form of corporate criminal liability focused 
broadly on a company's failure to prevent 
bribery on its behalf. The legislation has broad 
application and in certain circumstances may 
have extra-territorial impact on entities, 
persons or activities located outside the UK, 
including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. In 
practice, the legislation requires Barclays to 
have adequate procedures to prevent bribery 
which, due to the extra-territorial nature of 
the status, makes this both complex and 
costly.

On 30 September 2017, the Criminal Finances 
Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal 
offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of 
UK and overseas tax evasion. The legislation 
has very broad extra-territorial application and 
may impact entities, persons or activities 
located outside the UK, including Barclays PLC 
and its subsidiaries. It also requires Barclays 
to have reasonable prevention procedures in 
place to prevent the criminal facilitation 
of tax evasion by persons acting for, or 
on behalf of, Barclays.  

In the US, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA 
PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations thereunder 
contain numerous anti-money laundering and 
anti-terrorist financing requirements for 
financial institutions. In addition, Barclays is 
subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, which prohibits certain payments to 
foreign officials, as well as rules and 
regulations relating to economic sanctions 
and embargo programs administered by 
the US Office of Foreign Assets Control 
which restrict certain business activities 
with certain individuals, entities, groups, 
countries and territories.

Two significant new regulatory rules will be 
coming into force in the US in 2018: the New 
York Department of Financial Services (DFS) 
Rule 504 and the US Department of Treasury's 
Financial Crime Enforcement Network 
(FinCEN) Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Rule. 
Rule 504 enumerates detailed transaction 
filtering and screening requirements for 
potential Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money 
laundering violations and transactions with 
sanctioned entities, applicable to institutions 
regulated by the DFS (including Barclays Bank 
PLC, New York branch) and requires a senior 
bank official to certify compliance. The CDD 
Rule requires Barclays to identify natural 
beneficial owners above a certain threshold 
of clients that are legal entities within 
the US market. 

In some cases, US state and federal 
regulations addressing sanctions, money 
laundering and other financial crimes may 
impact entities, persons or activities located 
outside the US, including Barclays PLC and 
its subsidiaries. The enforcement of these 
regulations has been a major focus of US state 
and federal government policy relating to 
financial institutions in recent years, and 
failure of a financial institution to ensure 
compliance could have serious legal, 
financial and reputational consequences 
for the institution. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 203

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n
Strateg

ic rep
o

rt
R

isk review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Supervision and regulation
Risk review

Note
a Illustration of Barclays business divisions in preparation for regulatory ring-fencing. Plans are subject to internal and regulatory approvals and may change.

Structural reform
Overview
Barclays intends to achieve ring-fencing 
separation by transferring the Barclays UK 
division of Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays Bank 
UK PLC, the ring-fenced bank of the Group. 
Immediately following the transfer, Barclays 
Bank PLC's shares in Barclays Bank UK PLC will 
be distributed to the Parent company, Barclays 
PLC, establishing Barclays Bank UK PLC as a 
direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC. Barclays 
Bank PLC will continue to house the Barclays 
International division. The two banking 
entities will operate alongside one another, 
together with Barclays Services Limited 
(ServCo), as subsidiaries of Barclays PLC 
within the Barclays Group. 

In order to achieve this target-state structure, 
Barclays will need to undertake a number 
of legal transfers, including the transfer of 
customer and non-customer assets, liabilities 
and contractual arrangements.

Barclays is using a court approved statutory 
ring-fencing transfer scheme (RFTS) process 
as set out in the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 to conduct the majority of 
these transfers. In addition to the transfers 
conducted through the RFTS, certain items 
will be transferred via separate arrangements.

Barclays is on track to be compliant with 
ring-fencing requirements well in advance of 
the 1 January 2019 statutory deadline.

Timeline
Barclays' structural reform timeline, including 
progress to date and indicative future 
milestones is as follows:
■■ 2015:

 – Barclays Bank UK PLC, the legal entity 
which will become the ring-fenced bank, 
was incorporated.

■■ 2016:
 – Barclays UK and Barclays International 
business divisions were established

 – Barclays' US intermediate holding 
company was established as an umbrella 
holding company for Barclays' US 
subsidiaries, including Barclays Capital 
Inc. (US broker-dealer) that operates key 
investment banking businesses and 
Barclays Bank Delaware that operates 
Barclaycard US

 – Barclays Bank UK PLC banking 
authorisation application was submitted 
to the regulators

 – ServCo became a direct subsidiary of 
Barclays PLC.

■■ 2017:
 – Banking licence (with restrictions) 
granted to Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
April 2017

 – The majority of assets, liabilities, and 
other items connected with service 
provision were transferred from Barclays 
Bank PLC to ServCo, resulting in the 
execution of the ServCo build being 
substantially complete

 – Transfers of employees to the target 
structure employing entities took place in 
September 2017 under the Transfer of 
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) 
Regulations 2006

 – Sort codes have been split between 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC, with the last tranche completed in 
January 2018, so that each of the Group's 
sort codes is aligned to a single bank

 – RFTS court process has been initiated 
with the Directions Hearing held at the 
High Court of England and Wales on 
10 November 2017, where the Barclays 
Group's communications programme 
for notifying customers and other 
stakeholders of the RFTS was approved.

■■ 2018:
 – Sanction Hearing will be held on 26 and 
27 February 2018 at which the Court will 
be requested to sanction Barclays' RFTS

 – Subject to the Court sanctioning the 
RFTS, Barclays UK businesses and related 
items will be transferred to Barclays Bank 
UK PLC at the RFTS effective date, 
currently expected to be 1 April 2018.

Immediately following the RFTS transfers, the 
shares in Barclays Bank UK PLC will be 
transferred from Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays 
PLC, establishing Barclays Bank UK PLC as a 
direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC.

Illustrative unaudited pro forma financials for 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 
are available at home.barclays/results.

Barclays PLCa

Barclays Bank UK PLC

Barclays UK
UK consumers and business bank 
differentiated by scale and digital 
innovation

ServCo
Provides critical services to Barclays UK 
and Barclays International to deliver 
operational continuity
Enabling world-class services for our 
customers and clients while driving 
efficiency

Barclays International
Diversified wholesale and consumer bank

Barclays Bank PLCBarclays Services LimitedFuture State Legal Entity

Divisional Constructs 
and ServCo

204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Financial review Page
■■ Key performance indicators 206
■■ Consolidated summary income statement 208
■■ Income statement commentary 209
■■ Consolidated summary balance sheet 210
■■ Balance sheet commentary 211
■■ Analysis of results by business 212
■■ Non-IFRS performance measures 223

A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and the 
contribution of each of our businesses to the overall performance of the Group.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 205

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays' management believes that the 
non-IFRS performance measures included in 
this document provide valuable information to 
the readers of the financial statements as they 
enable the reader to identify a more consistent 
basis for comparing the business' performance 
between financial periods, and provide more 
detail concerning the elements of 

performance which the managers of these 
businesses are most directly able to influence 
or are relevant for an assessment of the 
Group. They also reflect an important aspect 
of the way in which operating targets are 
defined and performance is monitored by 
Barclays' management. However, any 
non-IFRS performance measures in this 
document are not a substitute for IFRS 

measures and readers should consider the 
IFRS measures as well. Refer to pages 223 to 
225 for further information and calculations 
of non-IFRS performance measures included 
throughout this section, and the most directly 
comparable IFRS measures.

Key performance indicators

In assessing the financial performance of the Group, management uses a range of KPIs which focus on the Group's financial strength, the delivery 
of sustainable returns and cost management. Significant strategic progress was made in 2017 with the closure of Barclays Non-Core and sell down 
of our stake in Barclays Africa, marking the completion of our restructuring and enabling us to set new targets for Group returns and costs.

The Non-Core segment was closed on 1 July 2017 with RWAs of £23bn, below guidance of approximately £25bn as set out in the 2016 KPIs. With 
the closure of Non-Core we no longer have a Core and Non-Core distinction within the Group and hence the previous target of Group RoTE to 
converge with Core RoTE has been updated. The Group is now targeting RoTE, excluding litigation and conduct, of greater than 9% in 2019 and 
greater than 10% in 2020, based on a Group CET1 ratio of c.13%. 

Guidance for Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct, is £13.6-13.9bn in 2019 and to have a cost: income ratio of below 60%.  

Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio
Capital requirements are part of the 
regulatory framework governing how banks 
and depository institutions are supervised. 
Capital ratios express a bank's capital as 
a percentage of its RWAs as defined by 
the PRA.

In the context of CRD IV, the fully loaded 
CET1 ratio is a measure of capital that is 
predominantly common equity as defined 
by the CRR.

The Group's capital management objective is 
to maximise shareholder value by prudently 
managing the level and mix of its capital to: 
ensure the Group and all of its subsidiaries 
are appropriately capitalised relative to their 
regulatory minimum and stressed capital 
requirements, support the Group's risk 
appetite, growth and strategic options, while 
seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition 
for the Group and its subsidiaries.

The Group's CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio 
increased to 13.3% (2016: 12.4%), as RWAs 
decreased £53bn to £313bn and CET1  
capital reduced to £41.6bn (2016: £45.2bn). 
The 90bps improvement was driven by 
organic capital generation from continuing 
operations, and the benefit of the proportional 
consolidation of BAGL and rundown of 
Non-Core, partially offset by adverse 
movements in reserves and the net impact 
of the remeasurement of US DTAs.

Group target: CET1 ratio target of 150-200bps 
above the expected end point regulatory 
minimum level, providing 450-500bps buffer 
to the Bank of England stress test systemic 
reference point.

13.3%
CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio
2016: 12.4%
2015: 11.4%

Average UK leverage ratio
The ratio is calculated as the average fully 
loaded Tier 1 capital divided by average UK 
leverage exposure. The average exposure 
measure excludes qualifying central 
bank claims.

The leverage ratio is non-risk based and is 
intended to act as a supplementary measure 
to the risk-based capital metrics such as the 
CET1 ratio. 

The average UK leverage ratio increased to 4.9% 
(2016: 4.5%) driven by a decrease in average UK 
leverage exposure to £1,045bn (2016: £1,137bn), 
partially offset by a decrease in the average fully 
loaded Tier 1 capital to £51.2bn (2016: £51.6bn). 

Group target: maintaining the leverage 
ratio above the expected end point 
minimum requirement. 

4.9%
Average UK leverage ratio
2016: 4.5%
2015: n/a 

206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

Return on average tangible shareholders' 
equity 
RoTE is calculated as profit after tax 
attributable to ordinary shareholders, 
including an adjustment for the tax credit 
recorded in reserves in respect of other equity 
instruments, as a proportion of average 
shareholders' equity excluding non-
controlling interests and other equity 
instruments adjusted for the deduction 
of intangible assets and goodwill.

This measure indicates the return generated 
by the management of the business based on 
shareholders' tangible equity. Achieving a 
target RoTE demonstrates the organisation's 
ability to execute its strategy and align 
management's interests with the 
shareholders'. RoTE lies at the heart of the 
Group's capital allocation and performance 
management process. 

RoTE for the Group was negative 3.6% 
(2016: positive 3.6%) reflecting an attributable 
loss of £1,922m (2016: profit of £1,623m), 
which included charges for litigation and 
conduct of £1,207m, a £1,090m impairment 
of Barclays' holding in BAGL, a £1,435m loss 
on the sale of 33.7% of BAGL's issued share 
capital and a one-off net charge of £901m due 
to the remeasurement of US DTAs in Q417.

RoTE for the Group excluding litigation and 
conduct, losses related to the sell down of 
BAGL and the remeasurement of US DTAs 
was 5.6%. Based on a CET1 ratio of 13% this 
would have been 5.5%.

Group target: Group RoTE, excluding litigation 
and conduct, of greater than 9% in 2019 and 
greater than 10% in 2020, based on a CET1 
ratio of c.13%. 

(3.6%)
Group RoTE
2016: 3.6%
2015: (0.7%) 

5.6%
Group RoTE excluding 
litigation and conduct, 
losses related to Barclays' 
sell down of BAGL and the 
remeasurement of US DTAs

Operating expenses
Operating expenses excluding litigation 
and conduct. 

Barclays views operating expenses as a key 
strategic area for banks; those who actively 
manage costs and control them effectively 
will gain a strong competitive advantage. 

Operating expenses for the Group were £15.5bn 
(2016: £16.3bn). Excluding litigation and 
conduct charges, Group operating expenses 
were £14.2bn, in line with 2017 guidance.

Group target: operating expenses, excluding 
litigation and conduct, of £13.6 to 13.9bn 
in 2019.

£14.2bn
Operating expenses excluding 
litigation and conduct
2016: £15.0bn
2015: £14.1bn

Cost: income ratio 
Operating expenses divided by total income.

This is a measure management uses to assess 
the productivity of the business operations. 
Restructuring the cost base is a key execution 
priority for management and includes a 
review of all categories of discretionary 
spending and an analysis of how we can run 
the business to ensure that costs increase at 
a slower rate than income.

The Group cost: income ratio reduced to 73% 
(2016: 76%) driven by a 5% reduction in 
operating expenses, partially offset by a 2% 
reduction in total income. The reduction in 
operating expenses was primarily driven by 
lower Non-Core related operating expenses.

Group target: a cost: income ratio of below 60%.

73%
Cost: income ratio 
2016: 76%
2015: 84% 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 207

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

For the year ended 31 December 
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m
2013

£m

Continuing operations
Net interest income 9,845 10,537 10,608 10,086 9,457
Net fee, commission and other income 11,231 10,914 11,432 11,677 14,587
Total income 21,076 21,451 22,040 21,763 24,044

Credit impairment charges and other provisions (2,336) (2,373) (1,762) (1,821) (2,601)

Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (13,884) (14,565) (13,723) (14,959) (16,628)
UK bank levy (365) (410) (426) (418) (462)
Litigation and conduct (1,207) (1,363) (4,387) (2,807) (2,442)
Operating expenses (15,456) (16,338) (18,536) (18,184) (19,532)

Other net income/(expenses) 257 490 (596) (445) (32)

Profit before tax 3,541 3,230 1,146 1,313 1,879
Tax charge (2,240) (993) (1,149) (1,121) (1,251)
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 1,301 2,237 (3) 192 628
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation (2,195) 591 626 653 669
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations (249) (346) (348) (449) (414)
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operation (140) (402) (324) (320) (343)
Other equity instrument holdersa (639) (457) (345) (250) –
Attributable (loss)/profit (1,922) 1,623 (394) (174) 540

Selected financial statistics
Basic (loss)/earnings per sharea (10.3p) 10.4p (1.9p) (0.7p) 3.8p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per sharea (10.1p) 10.3p (1.9p) (0.7p) 3.7p
Return on average tangible shareholders' equitya (3.6%) 3.6% (0.7%) (0.3%) 1.2%

Note
a  The profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders of £639m (2016: £457m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £174m (2016: £128m). The net amount 

of £465m (2016: £329m), along with non-controlling interests is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share and return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity. 

The financial information above is extracted from the published accounts. This information should be read together with the information included 
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated summary income statement

208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Income statement commentary

2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax increased 10% to £3,541m 
driven by a 5% reduction in operating 
expenses, partially offset by a 2% reduction in 
income and lower other net income. Results 
were impacted by the appreciation of average 
USD and EUR against GBP of 5% and 7% 
respectively, compared to 2016, which 
positively impacted income and adversely 
affected impairment and operating expenses.

Following the closure of Barclays Non-Core 
on 1 July 2017, Group results for 2017 included 
a Barclays Non-Core loss before tax for the 
six months ended 30 June 2017 of £647m, 
compared to a loss before tax of £2,786m for 
the full year in 2016. From 1 July 2017, residual 
Barclays Non-Core assets and liabilities were 
reintegrated into, and associated financial 
performance subsequently reported in, 
Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
Head Office.

Total income decreased to £21,076m 
(2016: £21,451m) reflecting a £613m decrease 
in Barclays International and a £262m 
reduction in Head Office, partially offset by 
a reduction in losses related to Non-Core. 

Credit impairment charges were broadly stable 
at £2,336m (2016: £2,373m) and reflected a 
charge of £168m in 2017 relating to deferred 
consideration from an asset sale in US Cards, 
and the non-recurrence of a £320m charge 
in 2016 following the management review of 
the UK and US cards portfolio impairment 
modelling. Impairment increased in Barclays 
International driven by an increase in 
underlying delinquency trends and business 
growth in US Cards. The Group loan loss rate 
increased 4bps to 57bps.

Operating expenses reduced 5% to £15,456m 
driven primarily by lower Non-Core related 
operating expenses. Excluding litigation and 
conduct charges, Group operating expenses 
were £14.2bn, in line with 2017 guidance.

Other net income of £257m (2016: £490m) 
primarily reflected a gain of £109m on the sale 
of Barclays' share in VocaLink to MasterCard 
and a gain of £76m on the sale of a joint 
venture in Japan.

The effective tax rate on profit before tax 
increased to 63.3% (2016: 30.7%) principally 
due to a one-off tax charge of £1,177m due to 
the remeasurement of US DTAs as a result of 
the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, partially offset 
by an unrelated £276m increase in US DTAs 
due to a remeasurement of Barclays Bank 
PLC's US branch DTAs. 

Loss after tax in respect of the Africa Banking 
discontinued operation of £2,195m included a 
£1,090m impairment of Barclays' holding in 
BAGL and a £1,435m loss on the sale of 33.7% 
of BAGL's issued share capital, primarily due 
to recycling of currency translation reserve 
losses to the income statement on accounting 
deconsolidation. 

RoTE was negative 3.6% (2016: positive 3.6%) 
and basic loss per share was 10.3p 
(2016: earnings per share of 10.4p). Excluding 
litigation and conduct, losses related to the 
sell down of BAGL and the one-off net charge 
due to the remeasurement of US DTAs, RoTE 
was 5.6% and earnings per share was 16.2p.

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased to £3,230m 
(2015: £1,146m). The Group performance 
reflected good operational performance in 
Barclays UK and Barclays International while 
being impacted by the Non-Core loss before 
tax of £2,786m (2015: £2,603m) driven by 
the accelerated rundown of Non-Core and 
provisions for UK customer redress of 
£1,000m (2015: £2,772m). The appreciation 
of average USD and EUR against GBP 
positively impacted income and adversely 
affected impairment and operating expenses. 

Total income decreased 3% to £21,451m as 
Non-Core income reduced £1,776m to a net 
expense of £1,164m due to the acceleration 
of the Non-Core rundown, while Barclays 
International income increased 9% to 
£14,995m, with growth in both Corporate and 
Investment Bank (CIB) and Consumer, Cards 
and Payments, and Barclays UK income 
increased 2% to £7,517m. 

Total income included a £615m (2015: £nil) 
gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited and an own credit loss of 
£35m (2015: gain of £430m). 

Credit impairment charges increased £611m 
to £2,373m including a £320m charge in 
Q3 2016 following the management review 
of the UK and US cards portfolio impairment 
modelling and balance growth primarily 
within Consumer, Cards and Payments. This 
was partially offset by a reduction in credit 
impairment charges of 9% to £122m in 
Non-Core due to lower impairment charges 
in European businesses. This resulted in an 
11bps increase in the loan loss rate to 53bps. 

Operating expenses reduced 12% to 
£16,338m reflecting lower litigation and 
conduct charges. This was partially offset by 
the non-recurrence of the prior year gain of 
£429m on the valuation of a component of 
the defined retirement benefit liability and 
increased structural reform implementation 
costs. Operating expenses also included a 
£395m additional charge in Q4 2016 relating 
to 2016 compensation awards reflecting a 
decision to more closely align income 
statement recognition with performance 
awards and to harmonise deferral structures 
across the Group. 

Operating expenses included provisions  
for UK customer redress of £1,000m 
(2015: £2,772m). 

The cost: income ratio improved to 76% 
(2015: 84%). 

Other net income of £490m (2015: expense of 
£596m) included gains on the sale of Barclays 
Risk Analytics and Index Solutions, the Asia 
wealth and investment management business 
and the Southern European cards business, 
partly offset by the loss on sale of the French 
retail business of £455m. 

The effective tax rate on profit before tax 
decreased to 30.7% (2015: 100.3%) 
principally as a result of a reduction in 
non-deductible charges. 

Profit after tax in respect of continuing 
operations increased to £2,237m  
(2015: loss of £3m). Profit after tax in relation 
to the Africa Banking discontinued operation 
decreased 6% to £591m as increased credit 
impairment charges and operating expenses 
were partially offset by income growth. 

RoTE was positive 3.6% (2015: negative 0.7%) 
and basic earnings per share was 10.4p 
(2015: loss per share of 1.9p).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 209

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

As at 31 December 
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m
2013

£m

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 102,353 49,711 39,695 45,687
Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,153 1,467 1,011 1,210 1,282
Trading portfolio assets 113,760 80,240 77,348 114,717 133,069
Financial assets designated at fair value 116,281 78,608 76,830 38,300 38,968
Derivative financial instruments 237,669 346,626 327,709 439,909 350,300
Financial investments 58,916 63,317 90,267 86,066 91,756
Loans and advances to banks 35,663 43,251 41,349 42,111 39,422
Loans and advances to customers 365,552 392,784 399,217 427,767 434,237
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 12,546 13,454 28,187 131,753 186,779
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 1,193 71,454 7,364 – – 
Other assets 18,433 19,572 21,019 36,378 22,128
Total assets 1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906 1,343,628
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 37,723 48,214 47,080 58,390 55,615
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 446 636 1,013 1,177 1,359
Customer accounts 429,121 423,178 418,242 427,704 431,998
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,351 34,687 33,967 45,124 53,464
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 173,718 96,031 91,745 56,972 64,796
Derivative financial instruments 238,345 340,487 324,252 439,320 347,118
Debt securities in issuea 73,314 75,932 69,150 86,099 86,693
Subordinated liabilities 23,826 23,383 21,467 21,153 21,695
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowings 40,338 19,760 25,035 124,479 196,748
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale – 65,292 5,997 – – 
Other liabilities 13,050 14,161 16,200 31,530 20,193
Total liabilities 1,067,232 1,141,761 1,054,148 1,291,948 1,279,679
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 22,045 21,842 21,586 20,809 19,887
Other equity instruments 8,941 6,449 5,305 4,322 2,063
Other reserves 5,383 6,051 1,898 2,724 249
Retained earnings 27,536 30,531 31,021 31,712 33,186
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 63,905 64,873 59,810 59,567 55,385
Non-controlling interests 2,111 6,492 6,054 6,391 8,564
Total equity 66,016 71,365 65,864 65,958 63,949
Total liabilities and equity 1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906 1,343,628

Net asset value per ordinary share 322p 344p 324p 335p 331p
Tangible net asset value per share 276p 290p 275p 285p 283p
Number of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC (in millions) 17,060 16,963 16,805 16,498 16,113

Year-end USD exchange rate 1.35 1.23 1.48 1.56 1.65
Year-end EUR exchange rate 1.13 1.17 1.36 1.28 1.20

Note
a  Debt securities in issue include covered bonds of £8.5bn (2016: £12.4bn).

Consolidated summary balance sheet

210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Balance sheet commentary

Total assets
Total assets decreased £80bn to £1,133bn.

Cash and balances at central banks and items 
in the course of collection from other banks 
increased £69bn to £173bn, as the cash 
contribution to the Group liquidity pool 
was increased.

Trading portfolio assets increased £34bn 
to £114bn due to increased activity. 

Financial assets designated at fair value 
increased £38bn to £116bn primarily due to 
increased reverse repurchase agreements to 
fund trading activity.

Derivative financial instrument assets 
decreased £109bn to £238bn which is 
consistent with the movement in derivative 
financial instrument liabilities. The decrease 
reflects the portfolio rundown of Barclays 
Non-Core, the adoption of daily settlements 
under the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 
(CME), an increase in major interest rate 
forward curves and the depreciation of 
period end USD against GBP.

Financial investments decreased £4bn to 
£59bn due to a decrease in government 
bonds held in the liquidity pool.

Total loans and advances decreased £35bn 
to £401bn which comprised of a lending 
reduction of £22bn and a net decrease of 
£13bn in settlement and cash collateral 
balances.

Assets included in disposal groups classified 
as held for sale decreased £70bn to £1bn 
driven by the disposal of BAGL and the French 
retail business.

Total liabilities
Total liabilities decreased £75bn to £1,067bn.

Deposits from banks decreased £10bn to 
£38bn driven by a £7bn decrease due to lower 
cash collateral and a decrease in central bank 
funding.

Customer accounts increased £6bn to £429bn 
driven by a £5bn increase due to increased 
funding requirements to fund the liquidity 
pool assets and a £14bn increase in deposits. 
These were partially offset by a £5bn 
reduction in cash collateral balances and a 
£7bn reduction in prime brokerage balances.

Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowing increased £21bn to £40bn. 
This was primarily due to an increase in 
central bank repurchase agreements and 
trading desk funding requirements.

Derivative financial instruments decreased 
£102bn to £238bn in line with the decrease 
in derivative financial instrument assets.

Liabilities included in disposal groups 
classified as held for sale decreased £65bn 
to £nil driven by the disposal of BAGL and 
the French retail business.

Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
increased £78bn to £174bn. During the period, 
repurchase agreements designated at fair 
value have increased £71bn and debt 
securities by £7bn.

Total shareholders' equity
Total shareholders' equity decreased £5.3bn 
to £66.0bn.

Share capital and share premium increased 
£0.2bn to £22.0bn due to the issuance of 
shares under employee share schemes and 
the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme.

Other equity instruments increased £2.5bn to 
£8.9bn primarily due to the issuance of equity 
accounted AT1 securities.

The available for sale reserve increased £0.4bn 
to £0.3bn. The reserve movement is driven by 
fair value movements on available for sale 
investments.

Cash flow hedging reserve has decreased 
£0.9bn to £1.2bn driven by a £0.6bn decrease 
in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for 
hedging purposes as forward interest rates 
increased and £0.6bn due to gains recycled 
to the income statement, offset by a £0.3bn 
tax charge.

The currency translation reserve remained 
flat at £3.1bn which principally reflected the 
depreciation of period end USD against GBP, 
offset by a £1.6bn net loss from recycling of 
the currency translation reserve to the income 
statement. This included a £1.4bn recycling of 
the currency translation reserve associated 
with the disposal of BAGL.

Non-controlling interests decreased £4.4bn to 
£2.1bn, driven by a £3.4bn reduction due to 
the disposal of BAGL and £0.9bn relating to 
the redemption of preference shares. 

Tangible net asset value per share decreased 
to 276p (2016: 290p) as profit before tax was 
more than offset by the net impact of the 
remeasurement of US DTAs in Q4 2017 and 
adverse movements across reserves.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 211

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 6,086 6,048 5,973
Net fee, commission and other income 1,297 1,469 1,370
Total income 7,383 7,517 7,343
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (783) (896) (706)
Net operating income 6,600 6,621 6,637
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (4,030) (3,792) (3,464)
UK bank levy (59) (48) (77)
Litigation and conduct (759) (1,042) (2,511)
Operating expenses (4,848) (4,882) (6,052)
Other net expenses (5) (1) –
Profit before tax 1,747 1,738 585
Attributable profit/(loss) 853 828 (47)

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £183.8bn £166.4bn £166.1bn
Total assets £237.4bn £209.6bn £202.5bn
Customer deposits £193.4bn £189.0bn £176.8bn
Loan: deposit ratio 95% 88% 94%
Risk weighted assets £70.9bn £67.5bn £69.5bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £9.6bn £8.5bn £9.0bn

Key facts
Average LTV of mortgage portfolioa 48% 48% 49%
Average LTV of new mortgage lendinga 64% 63% 64%
Number of branches 1,208 1,305 1,362
Mobile banking active customers 6.4m 5.4m 4.5m
30 day arrears rate – Barclaycard Consumer UK 1.8% 1.9% 2.3%
Number of employees (full time equivalent)b 22,800 36,000 38,800

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 9.8% 9.6% (0.3%)
Average allocated tangible equity £9.1bn £8.9bn £9.3bn
Cost: income ratio 66% 65% 82%
Loan loss rate (bps) 42 52 42
Net interest margin 3.49% 3.62% 3.56%

Notes
a Average LTV of mortgage portfolio and new mortgage lending calculated on the balance weighted basis.
b As a result of the establishment of the Group Service Company in September 2017, employees who are now employed by the Group Service Company and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office. 

Analysis of results by business 

Barclays UK

212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Analysis of Barclays UK
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Analysis of total income
Personal Banking 3,823 3,891 3,714
Barclaycard Consumer UK 1,977 2,022 2,065
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking 1,583 1,604 1,564
Total income 7,383 7,517 7,343

Analysis of credit impairment charges and other provisions
Personal Banking (222) (183) (194)
Barclaycard Consumer UK (541) (683) (488)
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking (20) (30) (24)
Total credit impairment charges and other provisions (783) (896) (706)

Analysis of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Personal Banking £139.8bn £135.0bn £134.0bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK £16.4bn £16.5bn £16.2bn
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Bankinga £27.6bn £14.9bn £15.9bn
Total loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £183.8bn £166.4bn £166.1bn

Analysis of customer deposits
Personal Banking £141.1bn £139.3bn £131.0bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK – – –
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking £52.3bn £49.7bn £45.8bn
Total customer deposits £193.4bn £189.0bn £176.8bn

Note
a Includes the integration of the ESHLA portfolio at amortised cost from Barclays Non-Core. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 213

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax increased 1% to £1,747m as 
lower PPI charges of £700m (2016: £1,000m) 
and a reduction in credit impairment charges 
were partially offset by the non-recurrence of 
the gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited in 2016, higher costs of setting 
up the ring-fenced bank and increased 
investment, primarily in cyber resilience, 
digital and technology.

Total income decreased 2% to £7,383m, of 
which £151m reflected the non-recurrence of 
the gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited in 2016.

Personal Banking income decreased 2% to 
£3,823m, driven by the non-recurrence of the 
Visa gain and the impact of the UK base rate 
reduction in 2016, partially offset by deposit 
pricing initiatives, growth in balances and 
an update to effective interest rate modelling. 
Barclaycard Consumer UK income decreased 
2% to £1,977m reflecting a provision for 
remediation in H2 2017. Wealth, Entrepreneurs 
& Business Banking (WEBB) income decreased 
1% to £1,583m driven by the non-recurrence 
of the Visa gain, partially offset by growth 
in balances.

Net interest income increased 1% to £6,086m 
due to deposit pricing initiatives and growth 
in loans and advances to customers and 
deposits, partially offset by the impact of the 
UK base rate reduction in 2016. Net interest 
margin decreased 13bps to 3.49% reflecting 
the integration of the Education, Social 
Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA) 
portfolio from Non-Core on 1 July 2017. Net 
fee, commission and other income decreased 
12% to £1,297m driven by the non-recurrence 
of the Visa gain.

Credit impairment charges decreased 13% 
to £783m principally reflecting the non-
recurrence of a £200m charge in 2016 
following the management review of the cards 
portfolio impairment modelling, partially offset 
by higher charges in Barclaycard Consumer 
UK and Personal Banking.

Operating expenses decreased 1% to 
£4,848m due to lower charges for PPI of 
£700m (2016: £1,000m), partially offset by 
the costs of setting up the ring-fenced bank 
and increased investment, primarily in cyber 
resilience, digital and technology. The cost: 
income ratio was 66% (2016: 65%).

Loans and advances to customers increased 
10% to £183.8bn and total assets increased 
13% to £237.4bn, reflecting the integration 
of the ESHLA portfolio from Non-Core into 
WEBB on 1 July 2017 and mortgage growth 
in Personal Banking in H2 2017.

Customer deposits increased 2% to £193.4bn 
due to deposit growth, partially offset by the 
realignment of clients between Barclays UK 
and Barclays International in preparation for 
structural reform.

RWAs increased to £70.9bn  
(December 2016: £67.5bn) reflecting 
the integration of the ESHLA portfolio.

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased £1,153m to 
£1,738m reflecting lower provisions for UK 
customer redress and a reduction in operating 
expenses. This was partially offset by an 
increase in credit impairment charges 
following the management review of the 
cards portfolio impairment modelling.

Total income, including a gain on disposal 
of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 
recognised in Personal Banking and WEBB, 
increased 2% to £7,517m. 

Personal Banking income increased 5% to 
£3,891m driven by the gain on disposal of 
Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited, 
improved deposit margins and balance 
growth, partially offset by lower mortgage 
margins. Barclaycard Consumer UK income 
decreased 2% to £2,022m primarily as a result 
of the European Interchange Fee Regulation, 
which came into full effect from December 
2015, offset by balance growth and gains from 
debt sales. WEBB income increased 3% to 
£1,604m reflecting the gain on disposal of 
Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited, 
improved margins and deposit growth, 
partially offset by reduced transactional 
fee income. 

Net interest income increased 1% to £6,048m 
due to balance growth and deposit pricing 
initiatives, partially offset by lower mortgage 
margins. Net interest margin increased 6bps 
to 3.62% reflecting higher margins on 
deposits, partially offset by lower mortgage 
margins. Net fee, commission and other 
income increased 7% to £1,469m due to the 
gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited, partially offset by the impact 
of the European Interchange Fee Regulation in 
Barclaycard Consumer UK, which came into 
full effect from December 2015, and reduced 
fee and commission income in WEBB. 

Credit impairment charges increased 27% 
to £896m due to a £200m charge in Q3 2016 
following the management review of the cards 
portfolio impairment modelling. The 30 day 
and 90 day arrears rates on the cards portfolio 
improved year on year to 1.9% (2015: 2.3%) 
and 0.9% (2015: 1.2%) respectively. 

Operating expenses reduced 19% to £4,882m 
reflecting lower provisions for UK customer 
redress, savings realised from strategic cost 
programmes, relating to restructuring of the 
branch network and technology 
improvements, partially offset by structural 
reform programme implementation costs. 

The cost: income ratio was 65% (2015: 82%) 
and RoTE was 9.6% (2015: (0.3%)). 

Loans and advances to customers were stable 
at £166.4bn (December 2015: £166.1bn). 

Total assets increased £7.1bn to £209.6bn 
primarily reflecting an increase in the allocated 
liquidity pool. 

Customer deposits increased 7% to £189.0bn 
primarily driven by higher balances in Personal 
Banking and WEBB. 

RWAs reduced £2.0bn to £67.5bn primarily 
driven by changes in the mortgages credit 
risk model. 

Analysis of results by business 

214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 4,307 4,512 4,324
Net trading income 3,971 4,580 3,782
Net fee, commission and other income 6,104 5,903 5,641
Total income 14,382 14,995 13,747
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (1,506) (1,355) (922)
Net operating income 12,876 13,640 12,825
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (9,321) (9,129) (8,029)
UK bank levy (265) (284) (253)
Litigation and conduct (269) (48) (1,310)
Operating expenses (9,855) (9,461) (9,592)
Other net income 254 32 45
Profit before tax 3,275 4,211 3,278
Attributable profit 847 2,412 1,758

 
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised costa £198.7bn £211.3bn £184.1bn
Trading portfolio assets £113.0bn £73.2bn £61.9bn
Derivative financial instrument assets £236.2bn £156.2bn £111.5bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities £237.8bn £160.6bn £119.0bn
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending £12.4bn £13.4bn £24.7bn
Financial assets designated at fair value £104.1bn £62.3bn £46.8bn
Total assets £856.1bn £648.5bn £532.2bn
Customer depositsb £225.1bn £216.2bn £185.6bn
Loan: deposit ratioc 62% 78% 80%
Risk weighted assets £210.3bn £212.7bn £194.8bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £27.5bn £25.6bn £23.8bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent)d 11,500 36,900 39,100

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 3.4% 9.8% 7.2%
Average allocated tangible equity £28.1bn £25.5bn £24.9bn
Cost: income ratio 69% 63% 70%
Loan loss rate (bps) 75 63 49
Net interest margin 4.16% 3.98% 3.80%

Notes
a As at 31 December 2017, loans and advances included £170.4bn (December 2016: £185.9bn) of loans and advances to customers (including settlement balances of £15.7bn 

(December 2016: £19.5bn) and cash collateral of £35.9bn (December 2016: £30.1bn)), and £28.3bn (December 2016: £25.4bn) of loans and advances to banks (including 
settlement balances of £2.3bn (December 2016: £1.7bn) and cash collateral of £18.0bn (December 2016: £6.3bn)). Loans and advances to banks and customers in respect of 
Consumer, Cards and Payments were £38.6bn (December 2016: £39.7bn).

b As at 31 December 2017, customer deposits included settlement balances of £15.2bn (December 2016: £16.6bn) and cash collateral of £27.3bn (December 2016: £20.8bn).
c Loan: deposit ratio excludes investment banking balances other than interest earning lending. Comparatives have been restated to include interest earning lending balances 

within the investment banking business.
d As a result of the establishment of the Group Service Company in September 2017, employees who are now employed by the Group Service Company and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office. 

Barclays International

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 215

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Analysis of Barclays International

Corporate and Investment Bank
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Income statement information
Macro 1,634 2,304 2,108
Credit 1,241 1,185 824
Equities 1,629 1,790 1,912
Markets 4,504 5,279 4,844
Banking fees 2,612 2,397 2,087
Corporate lending 1,093 1,195 1,361
Transaction banking 1,629 1,657 1,663
Banking 5,334 5,249 5,111
Other 40 5 495
Total income 9,878 10,533 10,450
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (213) (260) (199)
Operating expenses (7,742) (7,624) (7,929)
Other net income 133 1 –
Profit before tax 2,056 2,650 2,322

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost £160.1bn £171.6bn £152.0bn
Customer deposits £165.9bn £166.2bn £143.8bn
Risk weighted assets £176.2bn £178.6bn £167.3bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 1.1% 6.1% 5.4%
Average allocated tangible equity £24.0bn £21.9bn £21.9bn

Consumer, Cards and Payments
Income statement information
Total income 4,504 4,462 3,297
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (1,293) (1,095) (723)
Operating expenses (2,113) (1,837) (1,663)
Other net income 121 31 45
Profit before tax 1,219 1,561 956

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost £38.6bn £39.7bn £32.1bn
Customer deposits £59.2bn £50.0bn £41.8bn
Risk weighted assets £34.1bn £34.1bn £27.5bn

Key facts
30 day arrears rate – Barclaycard US 2.6% 2.6% 2.2%
Total number of Barclaycard business clients 366,000 355,000 341,000
Value of payments processed £322bn £296bn £271bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 16.7% 31.4% 20.2%
Average allocated tangible equity £4.2bn £3.6bn £3.0bn

Analysis of results by business 

216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax decreased 22% to £3,275 
driven by a 4% decrease in total income, an 
11% increase in credit impairment charges 
and a 4% increase in operating expenses.

Total income decreased 4% to £14,382m, 
including the 5% appreciation of average 
USD and the 7% appreciation of average 
EUR against GBP, as CIB income decreased 
6% to £9,878m, partially offset by a 1% 
increase in Consumer, Cards and Payments 
income to £4,504m.

Markets income decreased 15% to £4,504m. 
Macro income decreased 29% to £1,634m 
driven by lower market volatility in rates, 
the exit of the energy-related commodities 
business and the integration of Non-Core 
assets on 1 July 2017. Credit income increased 
5% to £1,241m due to improved performance 
in municipals. Equities income decreased 9% 
to £1,629m driven by US equity derivatives as 
a result of lower market volatility, partially 
offset by improved performance in equity 
financing.

Banking income increased 2% to £5,334m. 
Banking fee income increased 9% to £2,612m 
due to higher debt and equity underwriting 
fees, with fee share gains in banking overall 
and debt underwriting. Corporate lending 
declined 9% to £1,093m driven by lower 
lending balances due to the realignment of 
certain clients between Barclays UK and 
Barclays International in preparation for 
structural reform and the reallocation of RWAs 
within CIB, as well as the non-recurrence of 
prior year treasury gains and lower work-out 
gains. Transaction banking declined 2% to 
£1,629m driven by lower trade balances and 
the non-recurrence of prior year treasury 
gains, partially offset by higher average 
deposit balances.

Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
increased 1% to £4,504m driven by continued 
business growth, a gain of £192m relating to 
the Q1 2017 asset sale in US Cards and a 
valuation gain on Barclays' preference shares 
in Visa Inc. of £74m, partially offset by the 
non-recurrence of the £464m gain on the 
disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe 
Limited in 2016.

Credit impairment charges increased 11% 
to £1,506m, including the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB credit 
impairment charges decreased 18% to £213m 
primarily due to the non-recurrence of oil and 
gas single name charges in 2016, offset by a 
single name charge in 2017. Consumer, Cards 
and Payments credit impairment charges 
increased 18% to £1,293m primarily due 
to a £168m charge in Q3 2017 relating to 
deferred consideration from the Q1 2017 
asset sale in US Cards, an increase in 
underlying delinquency trends and business 
growth in US Cards. This was partially offset 
by the non-recurrence of a £120m charge in 
2016 following the management review of the 
cards portfolio impairment modelling. The 
30 and 90 day arrears rates within US Cards 
were stable at 2.6% (December 2016: 2.6%) 
and 1.3% (December 2016: 1.3%) respectively, 
including a benefit from the Q1 2017 asset 
sale in US Cards.

Operating expenses increased 4% to 
£9,855m, including the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB 
operating expenses increased 2% to £7,742m 
reflecting a provision of £240m in respect of 
foreign exchange matters recognised in 
Q4 2017, continued investment in technology, 
partially offset by lower restructuring charges 
and the reduced impact of the change in 
compensation awards introduced in Q4 2016. 
Consumer, Cards and Payments increased 
15% to £2,113m including continued growth 
and investment, primarily within the US Cards 
and merchant acquiring businesses.

Other net income increased to £254m 
(2016: £32m) due to a gain of £109m on 
the sale of Barclays' share in VocaLink to 
MasterCard and a gain of £76m on the sale 
of a joint venture in Japan.

Attributable profit reduced to £847m 
(2016: £2,412m) including the net tax charge 
due to the remeasurement of US DTAs in 
Q4 2017. 

Loans and advances to banks and customers 
at amortised cost decreased £12.6bn to 
£198.7bn with CIB decreasing £11.5bn to 
£160.1bn due to a reduction in lending. 
Consumer, Cards and Payments decreased 
£1.1bn to £38.6bn due to the depreciation 
of period end USD against GBP, partially offset 
by the realignment of certain clients from 
Barclays UK to Barclays International in 
preparation for structural reform.

Trading portfolio assets increased £39.8bn 
to £113.0bn due to increased activity. 

Derivative financial instrument assets and 
liabilities increased £80.0bn to £236.2bn and 
£77.2bn to £237.8bn respectively, reflecting 
the integration of balances from Non-Core on 
1 July 2017, partially offset by adoption of daily 
settlements under the CME, an increase in 
major interest rate forward curves and the 
depreciation of period end USD against GBP.

Financial assets designated at fair value 
increased £41.8bn to £104.1bn primarily due 
to increased reverse repurchase agreements 
activity.

Customer deposits increased £8.9bn to 
£225.1bn, with Consumer, Cards and 
Payments increasing £9.2bn to £59.2bn driven 
by the realignment of certain clients from 
Barclays UK to Barclays International in 
preparation for structural reform.

RWAs decreased £2.4bn to £210.3bn due to 
the net impact of the remeasurement of US 
DTAs and the depreciation of period end USD 
against GBP, partially offset by increased 
trading portfolio and securities financing 
transaction volumes.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 217

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased 28% to £4,211m 
due to the gain on disposal of Barclays' share 
of Visa Europe Limited and a 1% decrease in 
total operating expenses, partially offset by 
a 47% increase in impairment. 

Total income increased 9% to £14,995m, 
including the appreciation of average USD and 
EUR against GBP, with Consumer, Cards and 
Payments income increasing 35% to £4,462m 
and CIB income increasing 1% to £10,533m. 

Markets income increased 9% to £5,279m. 
Credit income increased 44% to £1,185m 
driven by strong performance in fixed income 
flow credit which benefited from increased 
market volatility and client demand. Equities 
income decreased 6% to £1,790m with lower 
client activity in Asia and the simplification 
of the EMEA business, partially offset by 
improved performance in cash, derivatives 
and financing in H2 2016. Macro income 
increased 9% to £2,304m driven by increased 
activity post the EU referendum decision and 
US elections. 

Banking income increased 3% to £5,249m. 
Banking fees income increased 15% to 
£2,397m driven by higher debt underwriting 
and advisory fees, partially offset by lower 
equity underwriting fees. Corporate lending 
reduced 12% to £1,195m due to losses on fair 
value hedges and the non-recurrence of 
one-off work-out gains recognised in Q2 2015. 
Transaction banking was broadly flat at 
£1,657m (2015: £1,663m) as income from 
higher deposit balances was offset by margin 
compression. 

Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
increased 35% to £4,462m driven by the 
£464m gain on disposal of Barclays' share 
of Visa Europe Limited, growth across all key 
businesses and the appreciation of average 
USD and EUR against GBP. 

Credit impairment charges increased 47% 
to £1,355m including the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB credit 
impairment charges increased 31% to £260m 
driven by the impairment of a number of 
single name exposures. Consumer, Cards 
and Payments credit impairment charges 
increased 51% to £1,095m primarily driven 
by balance growth, a change in portfolio mix 
and a £120m charge in Q3 2016 following 
a management review of the cards portfolio 
impairment modelling. 

Operating expenses decreased 1% to 
£9,461m. CIB decreased 4% to £7,624m 
reflecting lower litigation and conduct costs. 
This was partially offset by the appreciation of 
average USD against GBP, an additional charge 
in Q4 2016 relating to the 2016 compensation 
awards, higher restructuring costs, £150m 
of which related to reducing the real estate 
footprint in Q3 2016, and higher structural 
reform programme implementation costs 
including those relating to the incorporation 
of the US IHC on 1 July 2016. Consumer, 
Cards and Payments increased 10% to 
£1,837m due to continued business growth 
and the appreciation of average USD and 
EUR against GBP, partially offset by lower 
restructuring costs. 

The cost: income ratio was 63% (2015: 70%) 
and RoTE was 9.8% (2015: 7.2%). 

Loans and advances to banks and customers 
at amortised cost increased £27.2bn to 
£211.3bn with CIB increasing £19.6bn to 
£171.6bn due to increased lending and cash 
collateral and the appreciation of USD and 
EUR against GBP. Consumer, Cards and 
Payments increased £7.6bn to £39.7bn driven 
by appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP 
and growth in Barclaycard US, including the 
acquisition of the JetBlue credit card portfolio. 

Trading portfolio assets increased £11.3bn to 
£73.2bn due to an increase in client activity and 
appreciation of major currencies against GBP. 

Derivative financial instrument assets and 
liabilities increased £44.7bn to £156.2bn and 
£41.6bn to £160.6bn respectively, due to the 
appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP and 
decreases in forward interest rates. 

Financial assets designated at fair value 
increased £15.5bn to £62.3bn and reverse 
repurchase agreements and other similar 
lending decreased £11.3bn to £13.4bn. Since 
2015, new reverse repurchase agreements 
in certain businesses have been designated 
at fair value to better align to the way the 
business manages the portfolio's risk and 
performance. On a net basis reverse repos 
have increased by £4.2bn as a result of 
increased matched book trading. 

Customer deposits increased £30.6bn to 
£216.2bn, with CIB increasing £22.4bn to 
£166.2bn primarily driven by increases in 
deposits cash collateral and the appreciation 
of USD and EUR against GBP. Consumer, Cards 
and Payments increased £8.2bn to £50.0bn 
driven by balance growth in Barclaycard US 
and Private Banking, and the appreciation of 
USD and EUR against GBP. 

RWAs increased £17.9bn to £212.7bn, due 
to the appreciation of USD against GBP, and 
business growth, including the acquisition of 
the JetBlue credit card portfolio in Consumer, 
Cards and Payments.

Analysis of results by business 

218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income (435) (183) (305)
Net fee, commission and other incomea 276 286 643
Total income (159) 103 338
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (17) – –
Net operating (expenses)/income (176) 103 338
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (277) (135) (272)
UK bank levy (41) (2) (8)
Litigation and conduct (151) (27) (66)
Operating expenses (469) (164) (346)
Other net (expenses)/income (189) 128 (106)
(Loss)/profit before tax (834) 67 (114)
Attributable (loss)/profit (868) 110 11

Balance sheet information
Total assets £39.7bn £75.2bn £59.4bn
Risk weighted assetsb £31.8bn £53.3bn £39.7bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £10.0bn £9.7bn £5.0bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent)c 45,600 100 100

Performance measures
Average allocated tangible equity £9.3bn £6.5bn £2.6bn

Notes
a Following the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit, which was previously reported in net fee, commission and other income, is now 

recognised in other comprehensive income. The comparative figures for net fee, commission and other income include own credit. 
b Includes Africa Banking RWAs of £6.4bn (December 2016: £42.3bn).
c As a result of the establishment of the Group Service Company in September 2017, employees who are now employed by the Group Service Company and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office. 

2017 compared to 2016
Loss before tax was £834m  
(2016: profit of £67m).

Total income reduced to an expense of £159m 
(2016: income of £103m) primarily due to 
lower net income from treasury operations.

Operating expenses increased to £469m 
(2016: £164m) due to costs associated with 
Non-Core assets and businesses, which were 
integrated on 1 July 2017, and increased 
litigation and conduct costs, including a 
settlement to resolve the civil action brought 
by the US Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission's Office of Enforcement and 
provisions for other legacy redress.

Other net expenses were £189m 
(2016: income of £128m) driven by an 
expense of £180m on the recycling of the 
currency translation reserve to the income 
statement on the sale of Barclays Bank Egypt. 
2016 included a gain due to recycling of the 
currency translation reserve on disposal of 
the Southern European cards business. 

Total assets decreased to £39.7bn 
(December 2016: £75.2bn) primarily due 
to the accounting deconsolidation of BAGL, 
which accounted for £65bn of total assets 
on deconsolidation from the Barclays Group. 
This was partially offset by the integration 
of Non-Core assets on 1 July 2017, of which 
c.£9bn related to Italian mortgages. 

RWAs decreased to £31.8bn 
(December 2016: £53.3bn) reflecting 
a £31.1bn reduction as a result of the 
proportional consolidation of BAGL, partially 
offset by the integration of Non-Core assets.

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax was £67m 
(2015: loss of £114m). 

Net operating income decreased 70% to 
£103m due to an own credit charge of £35m 
(2015: gain of £430m), partially offset by 
changes in net income from treasury 
operations. 

Operating expenses reduced 53% to £164m 
primarily due to a reduction in structural 
reform implementation costs now allocated 
to the businesses and a reduction in litigation 
and conduct costs. 

Other net income increased to £128m 
(2015: expense of £106m) primarily due to 
recycling of the currency translation reserve 
on the disposal of the Southern European 
cards business. The 2015 expense included 
losses on sale relating to legacy businesses.

Total assets increased £15.8bn to £75.2bn 
primarily driven by the appreciation of ZAR 
against GBP. 

RWAs increased £13.6bn to £53.3bn primarily 
driven by the appreciation of ZAR against GBP 
and the reallocation of operational risk RWAs 
from Non-Core associated with exited 
businesses and assets.

Head Office

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 219

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Analysis of results by business 

2017a
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income (112) 160 615
Net trading income (488) (1,703) (706)
Net fee, commission and other income 70 379 703
Total income (530) (1,164) 612
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (30) (122) (134)
Net operating (expenses)/income (560) (1,286) 478
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (256) (1,509) (1,958)
UK bank levy – (76) (88)
Litigation and conduct (28) (246) (500)
Operating expenses (284) (1,831) (2,546)
Other net income/(expenses) 197 331 (535)
Loss before tax (647) (2,786) (2,603)
Attributable loss (419) (1,916) (2,418)

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost – £51.1bn £51.8bn
Derivative financial instrument assets – £188.7bn £213.7bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities – £178.6bn £202.1bn
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending – £0.1bn £3.1bn
Financial assets designated at fair value – £14.5bn £21.4bn
Total assets – £279.7bn £325.8bn
Customer deposits – £12.5bn £20.9bn
Risk weighted assets – £32.1bn £54.3bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) – 5,500 9,900

Note
a Represents financial results for the six months ended 30 June 2017. 

The Non-Core segment was closed on 
1 July 2017 with the residual assets and 
liabilities reintegrated into, and associated 
financial performance subsequently reported 
in, Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
Head Office. 

Financial results up until 30 June 2017 are 
reflected in the Non-Core segment within 
the Group's results for the year ended 
31 December 2017.

Barclays Non-Core

220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
2017a
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 1,024 2,169 1,950
Net fee, commission and other income 762 1,577 1,464
Total income 1,786 3,746 3,414
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (177) (445) (353)
Net operating income 1,609 3,301 3,061
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL (1,130) (2,345) (2,091)
UK bank levy – (65) (50)
Other net income excluding loss on sale of BAGL 5 6 7
Profit before tax excluding impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL and loss on sale of BAGL 484 897 927
Impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL (1,090) – –
Loss on sale of BAGL (1,435) – –
(Loss)/profit before tax (2,041) 897 927
Tax charge (154) (306) (301)
(Loss)/profit after tax (2,195) 591 626
Attributable (loss)/profit (2,335) 189 302

Balance sheet information
Total assets – £65.1bn £47.9bn
Risk weighted assets – £42.3bn £31.7bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) – 40,800 41,500

Note
a  The Africa Banking income statement represents five months of results as a discontinued operation to 31 May 2017.

On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its 
intention to reduce the Group's 62.3% interest 
in BAGL to a level which would permit 
Barclays to deconsolidate BAGL from a 
regulatory perspective and, prior to that, from 
an accounting perspective. From this date, 
BAGL was treated as a discontinued operation. 
On 5 May 2016, Barclays sold 12.2% of the 
Group's interest in BAGL and on 1 June 2017 
Barclays sold a further 33.7% of BAGL's issued 
share capital, resulting in the accounting 
deconsolidation of BAGL from the Barclays 
Group. At this time, Barclays' holding in BAGL 
technically met the requirements to be treated 
as an Associate. However, following a revision 
of its governance rights in July 2017 and the 
difference being immaterial, the holding 
was treated as an available for sale asset 
from the transaction date.

In Q317 Barclays contributed 1.5% of BAGL's 
ordinary shares to a Black Economic 
Empowerment scheme, resulting in Barclays 
accounting for 126 million ordinary shares in 
BAGL, representing 14.9% of BAGL's issued 
share capital. The retained investment is 
reported as an available for sale asset in the 
Head Office segment, with Barclays' share of 
BAGL's dividend recognised in the Head Office 
income statement.

For regulatory reporting purposes, BAGL is 
treated on a proportional consolidated basis 
based on a holding of 14.9% as at Q4 2017. 
Subject to regulatory approval, Barclays 
expects to fully deconsolidate BAGL from 
a regulatory perspective by the end of 2018.

Discontinued Operation: Africa Banking

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 221

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Analysis of results by business 

Margins analysis
Total Barclays UK and Barclays International 
net interest income increased 1% to £10.4bn 
due to an increase in average customer assets 
to £278.5bn (2016: £274.6bn) with growth in 
Barclays UK, partially offset by a reduction in 
Barclays International. 

Net interest margin decreased 2bps to 3.74% 
primarily reflecting the integration of ESHLA 
loans from Non-Core on 1 July 2017 into 
Barclays UK, partially offset by broadly stable 
net interest income in Barclays International, 
despite reducing average customer assets. 
Group net interest income decreased to 
£9.8bn (2016: £10.5bn) including net 
structural hedge contributions of £1.3bn 
(2016: £1.5bn).

Net interest margin by business reflects 
movements in the Group's internal funding 
rates which are based on the cost to the 
Group of alternative funding in wholesale 
markets. The internal funding rate prices 
intra-group funding and liquidity to 
appropriately give credit to businesses with 
net surplus liquidity and to charge those 
businesses in need of alternative funding  
at a rate that is driven by prevailing market 
rates and includes a term premium.

Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016
Net 

interest 
income

£m

Average
 customer

 assets
£m

Net 
interest
 margin

%

Net 
interest
 income

£m

Average
 customer

 assets
£m

Net 
interest 
margin

%

Barclays UK 6,086 174,484 3.49 6,048 167,233 3.62
Barclays Internationala 4,326 104,039 4.16 4,275 107,333 3.98
Total Barclays UK and Barclays International 10,412 278,523 3.74 10,323 274,566 3.76
Otherb (567) 214
Total net interest income 9,845 10,537

Notes
a Barclays International margins include interest earning lending balances within the investment banking business. 
b Other includes Head Office and non-lending related investment banking balances. Barclays Non-Core is included for the full comparative period and the first six months of the 

current period.

222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Non-IFRS performance measures

Barclays' management believes that the 
non-IFRS performance measures included in 
this document provide valuable information to 
the readers of the financial statements as they 
enable the reader to identify a more consistent 
basis for comparing the business' performance 
between financial periods, and provide more 
detail concerning the elements of performance 
which the managers of these businesses are 
most directly able to influence or are relevant 
for an assessment of Barclays PLC and its 

subsidiaries (the Group). They also reflect 
an important aspect of the way in which 
operating targets are defined and performance 
is monitored by Barclays' management.

Any non-IFRS performance measures in 
this document are not a substitute for IFRS 
measures and readers should consider the 
IFRS measures as well.



Non-IFRS performance measures glossary
Measure Definition
Loan: deposit ratio Loans and advances divided by customer accounts calculated for Barclays UK and Barclays International, 

excluding investment banking balances other than interest earning lending. This excludes particular liabilities 
issued by the retail businesses that have characteristics comparable to retail deposits (for example, structured 
Certificates of Deposit and retail bonds), which are included within debt securities in issue.

Period end allocated tangible 
equity

Allocated tangible equity is calculated as 12.0% (2016: 11.5%) of CRD IV fully loaded RWAs for each business, 
adjusted for CRD IV fully loaded capital deductions, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, reflecting the 
assumptions the Group uses for capital planning purposes. Head Office allocated tangible equity represents 
the difference between the Group's tangible shareholders' equity and the amounts allocated to businesses.

Average tangible shareholders' 
equity

Calculated as the average of the previous month's period end tangible equity and the current month's period 
end tangible equity. The average tangible shareholders' equity for the period is the average of the monthly 
averages within that period.

Average allocated tangible equity Calculated as the average of the previous month's period end allocated tangible equity and the current 
month's period end allocated tangible equity. The average allocated tangible equity for the period is the 
average of the monthly averages within that period.

Return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity

Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit in 
reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion of average shareholders' equity excluding 
non-controlling interests and other equity instruments adjusted for the deduction of intangible assets and 
goodwill. The components of the calculation have been included on page 224.

Return on average allocated 
tangible equity

Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit 
in reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion of average allocated tangible equity. 
The components of the calculation have been included on page 224.

Cost: income ratio Operating expenses divided by total income.
Operating expenses excluding 
litigation and conduct

Operating expenses excluding charges for litigation and conduct. The components of the calculation have 
been included on page 225.

Loan loss rate Quoted in basis points and represents total loan impairment divided by gross loans and advances to banks 
and customers held at amortised cost at the balance sheet date. The components of the calculation have 
been included on page 147.

Net interest margin Net interest income divided by the sum of average customer assets. The components of the calculation have 
been included on page 222.

Tangible net asset value per 
share

Calculated by dividing shareholders' equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments, 
less goodwill and intangible assets, by the number of issued ordinary shares. The components of the 
calculation have been included on page 225.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 223

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial review

Non-IFRS performance measures

Returns
Return on average tangible equity is calculated 
as profit for the period attributable to ordinary 
equity holders of the parent (adjusted for 
the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect 
of interest payments on other equity 
instruments) divided by average tangible 
equity for the period, excluding non-
controlling and other equity interests 
for businesses. 

Allocated tangible equity has been calculated 
as 12.0% (2016: 11.5%) of CRD IV fully loaded 
RWAs for each business, adjusted for CRD IV 
fully loaded capital deductions, excluding 
goodwill and intangible assets, reflecting 
the assumptions the Group uses for capital 
planning purposes. Head Office average 
allocated tangible equity represents the 
difference between the Group's average 
tangible shareholders' equity and the 
amounts allocated to businesses. 

Attributable
 profit/(loss)

£m

Tax credit 
in respect 
of interest 

payments on
 other equity 
instruments

£m

Profit/(loss)
 attributable 

to ordinary 
equity 

holders of 
the parent

£m

Average 
tangible 

equity
£bn

Return on 
average 
tangible 

equity
%

For the year ended 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 853 40 893 9.1 9.8
    Corporate and Investment Bank 167 102 269 24.0 1.1
    Consumer, Cards and Payments 680 18 698 4.2 16.7
Barclays International 847 120 967 28.1 3.4
Head Officea (868) 4 (864) 9.3 n/m
Barclays Non-Core (419) 10 (409) 2.4 n/m
Africa Banking discontinued operationa (2,335) – (2,335) n/m n/m
Barclays Group (1,922) 174 (1,748) 48.9 (3.6)

For the year ended 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 828 29 857 8.9 9.6
    Corporate and Investment Bank 1,270 72 1,342 21.9 6.1
    Consumer, Cards and Payments 1,142 11 1,153 3.6 31.4
Barclays International 2,412 83 2,495 25.5 9.8
Head Officea 110 (1) 109 6.5 n/m
Barclays Non-Core (1,916) 17 (1,899) 7.8 n/m
Africa Banking discontinued operationa 189 – 189 n/m n/m
Barclays Group 1,623 128 1,751 48.7 3.6

For the year ended 31 December 2015
Barclays UK (47) 14 (33) 9.3 (0.3)
    Corporate and Investment Bank 1,146 34 1,180 21.9 5.4
    Consumer, Cards and Payments 612 8 620 3.0 20.2
Barclays International 1,758 42 1,800 24.9 7.2
Head Officea 11 – 11 2.6 n/m
Barclays Non-Core (2,418) 14 (2,405) 10.9 n/m
Africa Banking discontinued operationa 302 – 302 n/m n/m
Barclays Group (394) 70 (324) 47.7 (0.7)

Note
a Average allocated tangible equity for Africa Banking is included within Head Office.

224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance measures excluding litigation and conduct, losses related to Barclays' sell down of BAGL and the remeasurement of US DTAs
2017

£m

Barclays Group profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parenta

Barclays Group profit attributable to ordinary equity holders (1,748)
Impact of litigation and conduct 1,150
Impact of impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL 1,008
Impact of loss on the sale of BAGL 1,435
Net impact of the remeasurement of US DTAs 901
Barclays Group profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent excluding litigation and conduct, losses related to 
Barclays' sell down of BAGL and the remeasurement of US DTAs 2,746

Barclays Group return on average shareholders' equity
Barclays Group average tangible shareholders' equity £48.9bn

Barclays Group return on average tangible shareholders' equity excluding litigation and conduct, losses related to Barclays' sell 
down of BAGL and the remeasurement of US DTAs 5.6%

Barclays Group average tangible shareholders' equity based on a CET1 ratio of 13% £50.3bn

Barclays Group return on average tangible shareholders' equity excluding litigation and conduct, losses related to Barclays' sell 
down of BAGL and the remeasurement of US DTAs based on a CET1 ratio of 13% 5.5%

Barclays Group basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic weighted average number of shares 16,996m

Barclays Group basic earnings per ordinary share excluding litigation and conduct, losses related to Barclays' sell down of BAGL 
and the remeasurement of US DTAs 16.2p

Operating expenses excluding litigation and conduct
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Barclays Group operating expenses (15,456) (16,338) (18,536)
Impact of litigation and conduct 1,207 1,363 4,387
Barclays Group operating expenses excluding litigation and conduct (14,249) (14,975) (14,149)

Tangible net asset value
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 63,905 64,873 59,810
Other equity instruments (8,941) (6,449) (5,305)
Goodwill and intangiblesb (7,849) (9,245) (8,222)
Tangible shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling interests attributable to ordinary shareholders 
of the parent 47,115 49,179 46,283

Shares in issue 17,060m 16,963m 16,805m

Tangible net asset value per share 276p 290p 275p

Notes
a The profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders of £639m (2016: £457m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £174m (2016: £128m). The net amount 

of £465m (2016: £329m), along with non-controlling interests is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share and return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity.

b Comparative figures for 2016 and 2015 included goodwill and intangibles in relation to Africa Banking.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 225

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial review
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Barclays approach to disclosures
Barclays aims to continually enhance its 
disclosures and their usefulness to the readers 
of the financial statements in the light of 
developing market practice and areas of focus. 
Consequently Barclays' disclosures go beyond 
the minimum standards required by 
accounting standards and other regulatory 
requirements.  

Barclays continues to support the 
recommendations and guidance made by 
the Financial Stability Board and its various 
task forces which continue to promote a 
broadening of disclosures by global banks  
in a number of areas, including liquidity and 
funding, credit risk and market risk. Barclays 
has adopted the recommendations across the 
Annual Report and Pillar 3 Report.

In line with the Financial Reporting Council's 
guidance on Clear and Concise reporting, 
Barclays has focused reporting on material 
items and sought to present information in 
order to aid users' understanding such as 
including detail on relevant accounting 
policies within each note.

British Bankers' Association (BBA) Code for 
Financial Reporting Disclosure as adopted 
by UK Finance in 2017
Barclays has adopted the BBA Code for 
Financial Reporting Disclosure and has 
prepared the 2017 Annual Report and 
Accounts in compliance with the Code. 

It is Barclays' view that best in class 
disclosures will continue to evolve in light of 
ongoing market and stakeholder engagement 
within the banking sector. Barclays is 
committed to continuously reflect the 
objectives of reporting set out in the BBA 
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure. 
This code sets out five disclosure principles 
together with supporting guidance which 
states that UK banks will:

■■ provide high quality, meaningful and 
decision-useful disclosures

■■ review and enhance their financial 
instrument disclosures for key areas 
of interest

■■ assess the applicability and relevance of 
good practice recommendations to their 
disclosures acknowledging the importance 
of such guidance

■■ seek to enhance the comparability of 
financial statement disclosures across the 
UK banking sector and

■■ clearly differentiate in their annual reports 
between information that is audited and 
information that is unaudited.

Statutory accounts
The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC 
and its subsidiaries (set out on pages 234 to 
238 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC 
itself on pages 239 to 240) have been 
prepared in accordance with the IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union. The 
accounting policies on pages 241 to 246 and 
the notes commencing on page 247 apply 
equally to both sets of accounts unless 
otherwise stated.

Capital Requirements Country-by-Country 
Reporting
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements 
set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital 
Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting 
Regulations 2013. The legislation requires 
Barclays PLC to publish additional 
information in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2017. This information 
is available on the Barclays website:  
barclays.com/citizenship/reports-and-
publications/country-snapshot.html 

Presentation of information

226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements Page Note
■■ Independent Auditor's Report 228 n/a
■■ Consolidated income statement 234 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 235 n/a
■■ Consolidated balance sheet 236 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of changes in equity 237 n/a
■■ Consolidated cash flow statement 238 n/a
■■ Parent company accounts 239 n/a

Notes to the financial statements
■■ Significant accounting policies 241 1

Performance/return ■■ Segmental reporting 247 2
■■ Net interest income 249 3
■■ Net fee and commission income 249 4
■■ Net trading income 250 5
■■ Net investment income 250 6
■■ Credit impairment charges and other provisions 250 7
■■ Operating expenses 252 8
■■ Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 252 9
■■ Tax 253 10
■■ Earnings per share 257 11
■■ Dividends on ordinary shares 257 12

Assets and liabilities held at fair value ■■ Trading portfolio 258 13
■■ Financial assets designated at fair value 258 14
■■ Derivative financial instruments 259 15
■■ Financial investments 262 16
■■ Financial liabilities designated at fair value 262 17
■■ Fair value of financial instruments 262 18
■■ Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 275 19

Financial instruments held at amortised cost ■■ Loans and advances to banks and customers 277 20
■■ Finance leases 277 21
■■ Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other 

similar lending and borrowing 278 22
Non-current assets and other investments ■■ Property, plant and equipment 279 23

■■ Goodwill and intangible assets 280 24
■■ Operating leases 282 25

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings

■■ Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 283 26
■■ Provisions 283 27
■■ Contingent liabilities and commitments 285 28
■■ Legal, competition and regulatory matters 285 29

Capital instruments, equity and reserves ■■ Subordinated liabilities 294 30
■■ Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity 297 31
■■ Reserves 297 32
■■ Non-controlling interests 298 33

Employee benefits ■■ Share-based payments 299 34
■■ Pensions and post-retirement benefits 301 35

Scope of consolidation ■■ Principal subsidiaries 306 36
■■ Structured entities 307 37
■■ Investments in associates and joint ventures 310 38
■■ Securitisations 311 39
■■ Assets pledged 312 40

Other disclosure matters ■■ Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration 313 41
■■ Auditors' remuneration 315 42
■■ Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and 

associated liabilities 315 43
■■ Barclays PLC (the Parent company) 317 44
■■ Related undertakings 318 45

Financial statements

Detailed analysis of our statutory accounts, independently audited and providing in-depth 
disclosure on the financial performance of the Group.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 227

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Independent Auditor's report

Our opinion is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements  
of Barclays PLC (“the Company”) for the 
year ended 31 December 2017 which 
comprise the consolidated and Parent 
company balance sheets as at 31 December 
2017 and the consolidated income statement, 
consolidated and Parent company statements 
of comprehensive income, cash flow 
statements and statements of changes in 
equity for the year then ended, and the related 
notes, including the significant accounting 
policies in note 1.

In our opinion the financial statements: 

■■ give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group's and of the Parent company's affairs 
as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group's 
loss and the Parent company's profit for the 
year then ended; 

■■ have been properly prepared in  
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union; 

■■ have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK) 
(“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our 
responsibilities are described below. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis 
for our opinion. Our audit opinion is 
consistent with our reports to the Board Audit 
Committee. 

We were appointed as auditor by the directors 
on 31 March 2017. The financial year ended 
31 December 2017 is our first year as auditor. 
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities 
under, and we remain independent of the 
Group in accordance with, UK ethical 
requirements including the FRC Ethical 
Standard as applied to listed public interest 
entities. No non-audit services prohibited by 
that standard were provided.

Key audit matters: our assessment of risks  
of material misstatement
Key audit matters are those matters that, in 
our professional judgement, were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial 
statements and include the most significant 
assessed risks of material misstatement 
(whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, 
including those which had the greatest effect 
on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation  
of resources in the audit; and directing the 
efforts of the engagement team. We 
summarise below the key audit matters in 
decreasing order of audit significance, in 
arriving at our audit opinion above, together 
with our key audit procedures to address 
those matters and, as required for public 
interest entities, our results from those 
procedures. These matters were addressed, 
and our results are based on procedures 
undertaken, in the context of, and solely for 
the purpose of, our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and consequently are 
incidental to that opinion, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Independent Auditor's report to the members of Barclays PLC

228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Impairment of loans and advances to customers
Refer to page 57 (Board Audit Committee Report).

Subjective estimate
The calculation of certain credit provisions for the Group is 
inherently judgemental. Individual and collective impairment 
provisions (identified and unidentified) may not reflect recent 
developments in credit quality, arrears experience, or emerging 
macro-economic risks. The most significant areas are:

■■ Complex impairment models - Models used in the UK and US 
Barclaycard and UK mortgages portfolios to estimate the existence 
of incurred loss events and the resultant expected write-offs. 
Judgement is required to determine the inputs, methodologies  
and assumptions and these can significantly impact the provisions 
held. The most significant judgements include the segmentation 
level at which historical loss rates are calculated, and the length  
of the recovery period and the loss emergence period applied to 
historical loss provisions. 

■■ Forborne accounts - Forbearance requires special consideration in 
impairment provisioning, as latent losses may not be appropriately 
recognised where payment or other concessions have been 
granted to the customer to provide temporary relief from debt 
obligations. Forbearance has the greatest potential financial 
significance on the UK and US Barclaycard and UK mortgages 
portfolios.

■■ Identification of impairment - Corporate exposures on the Group's 
early watchlist are individually assessed for impairment based on  
a borrower's financial performance, solvency and liquidity. The 
bespoke nature of this assessment means there is an inherent  
risk that loss impairment triggers may not be identified on a  
timely basis.

Alongside the above, another area of focus is post modelling 
adjustments and management overlays in the UK and US Barclaycard 
and UK mortgages portfolios as they have the potential to be 
significant, judgemental and may be difficult to corroborate.

Our procedures included:

■■ Controls testing: For UK and US Barclaycard and UK mortgages 
portfolios we tested the design and operating effectiveness of the key 
controls over the completeness and accuracy of the key inputs and 
assumptions into the impairment models, the identification of impaired 
and forborne accounts and key systems reconciliations. We evaluated 
controls over the modelling process, including model monitoring, 
validation and approval. We tested controls over model outputs and 
recognition and approval of post model adjustments and management 
overlays. For corporate exposures, we tested design and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the determination of whether 
loans displayed indicators of impairment;

■■ Our financial risk modelling expertise: In the UK and US Barclaycard 
and UK mortgage portfolios we assessed the appropriateness of  
the Group's impairment methodologies using our experience to 
independently assess segmentation, emergence periods and recovery 
period assumptions. For a sample of customer accounts we  
re-evaluated when an emergence period should start by using 
underlying customer data and comparing this to the emergence period 
in the models used by the Group;

■■ Test of details: We tested a selection of post model adjustments and 
management overlays in order to assess the reasonableness of the 
adjustments by challenging key assumptions, inspecting the calculation 
methodology and tracing a sample back to source data;

■■ Test of details: In the UK and US Barclaycard and UK mortgages 
portfolios we analysed account source data to identify accounts that 
were paying less than their contractual amount. These accounts were 
then checked to the forborne accounts identified by the Group; 

■■ Our credit experience: We examined a risk based sample of corporate 
exposures on the early watch list not identified as impaired and formed 
our own judgement, based on the individual facts and circumstances, as 
to whether impairment was required.

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the credit 
impairment charge and provision recognised to be acceptable.

Litigation and regulatory matters
Contained within the provision for Legal, competition and regulatory 
matters of £435 million and Note 29 Legal, competition and 
regulatory matters (2016: £455 million)

Refer to page 56 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 283 
(accounting policy on accounting for provisions), page 285 
(accounting policy on accounting for contingent liabilities),  
and page 283 (financial disclosures note 27 Provisions) and  
page 285 (financial disclosures note 29 Legal, competition and 
regulatory matters)

Determining obligation 
The Group and Parent operates in a highly litigious and regulated 
environment and faces legal, competition and regulatory challenges 
which can lead to potential claims and exposures (together 
“litigation and regulatory matters”). In certain litigation and 
regulatory matters significant judgment is required by the Directors 
to determine if there is a present obligation under relevant 
accounting standards.

Subjective estimate
If there is a present obligation the amounts involved can be 
potentially significant, and the application of accounting standards 
to estimate the expected outflow, if any, of any liability to be 
recognised is inherently subjective.

Disclosure quality
When a liability is not recognised for possible significant outflows 
but there is more than a remote likelihood of an adverse outcome, 
the related disclosure is key to understanding the risks and potential 
effect on the Group and Parent.

Our procedures included:

■■ Enquiry of Directors: We enquired of the Directors to obtain their view 
on the status of all significant litigation and regulatory matters;

■■ Enquiry of lawyers: For all significant litigation and regulatory matters 
we enquired of the Group's internal legal counsel and inspected internal 
notes and reports. We also received formal confirmations from external 
counsel. For the most significant litigation and regulatory matters we 
also had discussions with external counsel. Based on these procedures 
we challenged the timing of the recognition of provisions where there is 
potential exposure but it is not clear whether an obligation exists or 
where the Directors have determined a reliable estimate is not possible. 
For the significant provisions we independently assessed the estimated 
value of the provision, based on our enquiries of lawyers;

■■ Assessing transparency: Assessed whether the disclosures detailing 
significant litigation and regulatory matters adequately disclose the 
potential liabilities and the significant uncertainties that exist.

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the 
liabilities recognised, and the disclosures made, to be acceptable.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 229

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Independent Auditor's report to the members of Barclays PLC
Independent Auditor's report

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Payment Protection Insurance (‘PPI') Redress 
Contained within the provision for Conduct redress PPI of 
£1,606 million (2016: £1,979 million) 

Refer to page 56 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 283 
(accounting policy on accounting for provisions) and page 283 
(financial disclosure note 27 Provisions).

Subjective estimate
The calculation of the provision of PPI redress costs for the Group 
requires the Directors to determine a number of key inputs. The 
determination of these is judgemental and requires the Directors to 
consider a range of information. The most significant input into the 
PPI provision calculation is the future complaint flow and that is 
where we have focussed our procedures. 

The Directors have developed a model which calculates the expected 
future complaint flow and associated redress cost. In 2017 a key 
factor impacting the period over which the model forecasts 
complaint flows was the introduction of a Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”) timebar for processing new complaints. The 
effective date of the timebar is August 2019, and prior to that the 
FCA is running a consumer communications campaign to give 
potential complainants notice of the timebar.

The Directors have assessed the appropriateness of the provision 
with reference to the expected impact of this timebar and also in  
the context of the historical observation across the industry in  
recent years that the compliant flow has always been greater  
than expected. 

Disclosure quality
The related PPI disclosures provide the key assumptions 
underpinning the calculation of the future complaint flow and 
sensitivity of the provision to the flow and are therefore key to 
understanding the judgement which has been applied. 

Our procedures included:

■■ Enquiry of Directors: We enquired of the Directors as to how they have 
determined the future complaint flow with particular focus on the way 
in which the impact of the FCA consumer communications campaign 
was determined. We also enquired to the reason for adjustments in the 
provision estimates in 2017, and determined whether these adjustments 
were indicative of bias in the estimation process;

■■ Enquiry of regulators: We inspected the regulatory correspondence 
with the FCA and PRA to identify any regulatory observations on the 
future complaint flow. We also made enquiries of the FCA discussing  
in more detail the nature of the matters contained in regulatory 
correspondence that could materially affect the level of provisions held;

■■ Controls testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of 
the key controls over capturing of historic complaints volumes and 
estimating the future complaint flow; 

■■ Sensitivity analysis: We tested the operation of the model used to 
determine the future complaint flow and related redress estimates  
and considered the sensitivity of the model to variations in the future 
complaint flow. We also considered the appropriateness of the scenarios 
used to model the potential range of future complaint flows, with 
particular focus on the way the impact of the timebar and FCA 
communication campaign have been determined, and considered the 
sensitivity of the model to variations in the future complaint flow by 
inspecting the calculation methodology and challenging the key 
assumptions using our industry knowledge;

■■ Independent reperformance: We built our own model to allow us to 
determine a range of potential future complaint flows and compared 
these to the Group's own range. Where there were differences in the 
inputs and ranges we challenged the Group's rationale for these and 
assessed whether they were reasonable. We also used our model to 
understand the effect of these ranges on the potential future redress 
cost;

■■ Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the disclosures 
appropriately disclose and address the uncertainty which exists  
when determining the future complaint flow. As a part of this, we 
re-performed the sensitivity analysis that is disclosed.

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the liability 
recognised, and the disclosures made, to be acceptable.

230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Valuation of financial instruments (trading, held at fair value and 
derivatives)
Contained within the level 3 assets and liabilities valued at 
£15,598 million and £5,681 million respectively  
(2016: £27,020 million and £14,219 million)

Refer to page 56 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 262 
(accounting policy on accounting for financial assets and liabilities – 
fair values) and page 262 (financial disclosure Note 18 Fair value of 
financial instruments).

Subjective valuation
The fair value of the Group's financial instruments is determined 
through the application of valuation techniques which often involve 
the exercise of judgement by the Directors and the use of 
assumptions, estimates and valuation models.

Estimation uncertainty can be high for those instruments where 
significant valuation inputs are unobservable (i.e. Level 3 
instruments). At 31 December 2017, Level 3 instruments represented 
2.9% of the Group's financial instrument assets carried at fair value 
(£15.6 billion) and 1.2% of the Group's financial instrument liabilities 
carried at fair value (£5.7 billion).

Within this Level 3 population the fair value instrument portfolios in 
the Group with the most significant judgements include: 

■■ Education, Social Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA) loan 
portfolio – as at 31 December 2017 the Group has outstanding 
ESHLA loans which require significant judgement in the  
valuation due to the long dated nature of the portfolio,  
the lack of a secondary market in the relevant loans and 
unobservable loan spreads.

■■ Longer-dated portfolios – we identified three portfolios (two 
derivative portfolios and a bond package) each with a significant 
risk attached to the valuation methodology due to the lack of 
observable pricing inputs. The bond package also includes a long 
standing valuation disparity with the counterparty.

Our procedures included:

■■ Control testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key 
controls relating specifically to the ESHLA and the three longer dated 
portfolios. These included: 

 – Controls over independent price verification (IPV) key inputs, 
including completeness of positions and risk factors subject to IPV. 
For ESHLA we tested the gilt asset swap curve and credit spreads.  
For the long dated portfolios we tested material risk parameters;

 – Management review controls over fair value adjustments (FVA). For 
ESHLA these related to pre-payments. For the longer-dated portfolios 
these related to exit adjustments and model shortcoming reserves. In 
addition we tested funding and credit adjustments for all significant 
risk portfolios. 

 – Controls over the validation, completeness, implementation and 
usage of valuation models. This included controls over adjustments to 
mitigate model limitations and assumptions.

■■ Independent reperformance: Our own valuation specialists 
independently re-priced a selection of trades from the three longer-
dated portfolios and challenged management on the valuations where 
they were outside our expected range. 

■■ Methodology choice: In the context of observed industry practice, our 
own valuation specialists assisted us in challenging the appropriateness 
of significant models and methodologies used in calculating fair values, 
risk exposures, completeness of risk factors, and in calculating FVAs;

■■ Comparing valuations: For a selection of material collateral disputes 
within the longer-dated portfolios our own valuation specialists 
challenged the valuation methodology where significant fair value 
differences were observable with the counterparty;

■■ Historical comparison: For the longer-dated bond package portfolio we 
inspected significant gains and losses on historical trade exits both in 
the current year and prior years and challenged whether these data 
points indicate elements of fair value not incorporated in the current 
valuation methodologies; 

■■ Benchmarking: For the ESHLA portfolio we independently sourced 
comparable credit spreads and proxy bond spreads and investigated 
significant variances.

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the fair value of 
level 3 financial instrument assets and liabilities recognised to be acceptable.

User Access Management (‘UAM')
Control Performance
User Access Management key controls are an important component 
of the General IT Control environment assuring only authorised 
access to the infrastructure, financial systems and data throughout 
the Group.

In 2016, controls to detect instances of direct developer access to 
the production environment, were not consistently implemented and 
operated throughout the Group. Also, where inappropriate direct 
developer access had been identified by compensating controls, 
there were no follow up activities performed to determine if and how 
these access rights were used, potentially resulting in unauthorised 
changes to the infrastructure and financial systems.

During 2017 a remediation programme and further compensating 
controls were implemented to address inappropriate direct developer 
access to infrastructure and financial systems, including an 
assessment of potential access by developers that were not covered 
by the further compensating controls.

If the above controls for User Access Management are deficient and 
are not remediated or adequately mitigated the pervasive nature of 
these key controls may undermine our ability to place some reliance 
on fully automated and IT dependent controls in our audit.

Our procedures included:
■■ Assessment of remediation: We inspected selected activities of the 

remediation programme to determine the appropriateness of the 
remediation and a new mitigating and compensating detective control 
implemented in the year; 

■■ Control testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
key controls over User Access Management. This included the new 
mitigating and compensating control implemented in the year that 
identifies inappropriate developer access to production, the procedures 
to assess potential use, and the removal of these access rights;

■■ Control reperformance: for a selection of key automated and technology 
dependent controls, that were tested before the remediation programme 
concluded, we independently reperformed procedures to determine that 
these controls remained unchanged or were changed following the 
standard change management process throughout the year;

■■ Extended scope: To determine that a further detective compensating 
control and retrospective scan of developer activities on key IT 
applications was complete and accurate, we reperformed on a sample 
basis management's assessment of potential access by developers that 
were not covered by the further compensating control.

Our results:
Our testing did not identify developers who had access and used the 
access without authorisation that would have required us to expand the 
extent of our planned detailed testing.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 231

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Independent Auditor's report to the members of Barclays PLC
Independent Auditor's report

Our application of materiality and an 
overview of the scope of our audit 

Materiality
Materiality for the Group financial statements 
as a whole was set at £225 million, determined 
with reference to a benchmark of group profit 
before tax from continuing operations, 
normalised to exclude charges related to 
litigation and conduct as disclosed in note 2, of 
£4,748 million, of which it represents 4.7%. 

Materiality for the Parent company financial 
statements as a whole was set at £225 million, 
determined with reference to a benchmark of 
net assets, of which it represents 0.6%. 

We agreed to report to the Board Audit 
Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding £11 million, 
in addition to other identified misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 

Group materiality

1

A

B

C

2

1 Profit before tax 
 from continuing operations* £4,748m
2 Group materiality £225m

*normalised to exclude charges related to litigation and conduct

A £225m 
 Whole financial 
 statements 
 materiality
B £165m 
 Range of materiality 
 at 10 components 
 (£25m-£165m)
C £11m 
 Misstatements 
 reported to the 
 Board Audit 
 Committee

Scope – general
We subjected 6 of the group's reporting 
components to full scope audits for group 
purposes and 4 to an audit of one or more 
account balances, of which 3 focused on 
loans and advances and related impairment 
and interest, and 1 focused on Financial assets 
designated at fair value. The latter were not 
individually financially significant enough to 
require a full scope audit for group purposes, 
but did present specific individual risks that 
needed to be addressed. 

The work on 5 of the 6 components was 
performed by component auditors and the 
rest, including the audit of the Parent 
company, was performed by the Group team. 
For those items excluded from normalised 
group profit before tax, the component teams 
performed procedures on items relating to 
their components. The group team performed 
procedures on the remaining excluded items.

The components within the scope of our  
work accounted for the percentages 
illustrated opposite.

Group total income

1

2
3

1 Full scope for group audit purposes 79%
2 Audit of one or more account balance 2%
3 Residual components – other procedures 19%

Group total assets

1
2 3

1 Full scope for group audit purposes 87%
2 Audit of one or more account balance 3%
3 Residual components – other procedures 10%

Scope – disclosure of IFRS 9 effect
The Group is adopting IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments from 1 January 2018 and has 
included an estimate of the financial impact  
of the change in accounting standard in 
accordance with IAS 8 Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors as set out in note 1. This 
disclosure notes that the estimate has been 
prepared under an interim control environment 
with models that continue to undergo 
validation. While further testing of the financial 
impact will be performed as part of our 2018 
year end audit, we have performed sufficient 
audit procedures for the purposes of assessing 
the disclosures made in accordance with IAS 
8. Specifically we have:

■■ considered the appropriateness of key 
technical decisions, judgements, 
assumptions and elections made in 
determining the estimate; 

■■ considered key classification and 
measurement decisions, including business 
model assessments and solely payment of 
principal and interest outcomes;

■■ involved credit risk modelling and economic 
specialists in the consideration of credit risk 
modelling decisions and macroeconomic 
variables, including forward economic 
guidance and generation of multiple 
economic scenarios, for a sample of models 
used in determining the estimate;

■■ considered interim controls and governance 
processes related to the calculation and 
approval of the estimated transitional impact.

Team structure
The Group team instructed component 
auditors as to the significant areas to be 
covered, including the relevant key audit 
matters detailed above and the information to 
be reported back. The Group team approved 
the component materialities, which ranged 
from £25 million to £165 million, having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile  
of the Group across the components. 

The Group team visited all of the components 
in scope for group reporting purposes to assess 
the audit risk and strategy. Video and telephone 
conference meetings were also held with these 
component auditors. At these visits and 
meetings, we reviewed the components' key 
workpapers, the findings reported to the Group 
team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group team was 
then performed by the component auditor.

The Group operates a shared service centre  
in India, the outputs of which are included in  
the financial information of the reporting 
components it services and therefore it is not a 
separate reporting component. The shared 
service centre is subject to specified risk-focused 
audit procedures, predominantly the testing of 
transaction processing, reconciliations and 
review controls. Additional procedures are 
performed at certain reporting components to 
address the audit risks not covered by the work 
performed over the shared service centres. The 
Group team and certain component teams 
visited the shared service centre and performed 
consistent risk assessment procedures as 
described above for component site visits.

We have nothing to report on going concern 
We are required to report to you if:
■■ we have anything material to add or draw 

attention to in relation to the directors' 
statement in note 1 to the financial 
statements on the use of the going concern 
basis of accounting with no material 
uncertainties that may cast significant 
doubt over the Group and Parent company's 
use of that basis for a period of at least 
twelve months from the date of approval  
of the financial statements; or 

■■ the same statement under the Listing Rules 
is materially inconsistent with our audit 
knowledge. 

We have nothing to report in these respects. 

We have nothing to report on the other 
information in the Annual Report 
The directors are responsible for the other 
information presented in the Annual Report 
together with the financial statements. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information and, accordingly, 
we do not express an audit opinion or, except 
as explicitly stated below, any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether, 
based on our financial statements audit work, 
the information therein is materially misstated 
or inconsistent with the financial statements or 
our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work 
we have not identified material misstatements 
in the other information.

232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Strategic report and Directors' report 
Based solely on our work on the other 
information: 
■■ we have not identified material 

misstatements in the strategic report  
and the Directors' report;

■■ in our opinion the information given in those 
reports for the financial year is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 

■■ in our opinion those reports have been 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. 

Directors' remuneration report 
In our opinion the part of the Directors' 
Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

Disclosures of principal risks and longer-
term viability 
Based on the knowledge we acquired during 
our financial statements audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention  
to in relation to:
■■ the directors' confirmation within the Viability 

statement (pages 40 to 41) that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency and liquidity; 

■■ the material existing and emerging risks 
disclosures describing these risks within the 
Viability Statement (pages 40 to 41) and 
explaining how they are being managed 
and mitigated; and 

■■ the directors' explanation in the Viability 
statement of how they have assessed the 
prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they considered 
that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.

Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Viability statement. We have 
nothing to report in this respect. 

Corporate governance disclosures 
We are required to report to you if: 
■■ we have identified material inconsistencies 

between the knowledge we acquired during 
our financial statements audit and the 
directors' statement that they consider that 
the Annual Report and financial statements 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group's position and performance, business 
model and strategy; or 

■■ the section of the Annual Report describing 
the work of the Board Audit Committee 
does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Board  
Audit Committee.

We are required to report to you if the Corporate 
Governance Statement does not properly 
disclose a departure from the eleven provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
by the Listing Rules for our review. 

We have nothing to report in these respects. 

We have nothing to report on the other 
matters on which we are required to report 
by exception 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
■■ adequate accounting records have not been 

kept by the Parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 

■■ the Parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors' Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 

■■ certain disclosures of directors' remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or 

■■ we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. 

We have nothing to report in these respects. 

Respective responsibilities 
Directors' responsibilities 
As explained more fully in their statement set 
out on page 88, the directors are responsible 
for: the preparation of the financial statements 
including being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view; such internal control as they 
determine is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error; assessing the Group and 
Parent company's ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern; and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless 
they either intend to liquidate the Group or 
the Parent company or to cease operations, 
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or other 
irregularities (see below), or error, and to issue 
our opinion in an auditor's report. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
does not guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other 
irregularities or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of the financial statements. 

A fuller description of our responsibilities is 
provided on the FRC's website at www.frc.
org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. 

Irregularities – ability to detect
We identified relevant areas of laws and 
regulations that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements from our sector 
experience, through discussion with the 

directors and other management (as required 
by auditing standards), and from inspection  
of the Group's regulatory correspondence.

We had regard to laws and regulations  
in areas that directly affect the financial 
statements including financial reporting 
(including related company legislation) and 
taxation legislation. We considered the extent 
of compliance with those laws and regulations 
as part of our procedures on the related 
annual accounts items. 

In addition we considered the impact of laws 
and regulations in the specific areas of 
regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct 
including PPI mis-selling, money laundering, 
sanctions list and financial crime, market 
abuse regulations and certain aspects of 
company legislation recognising the financial 
and regulated nature of the Group's activities. 
With the exception of any known or possible 
non-compliance, and as required by auditing 
standards, our work in respect of these was 
limited to enquiry of the directors and other 
management and inspection of regulatory 
correspondence. We considered the effect of 
any known or possible non-compliance with 
these as part of our procedures on the related 
annual accounts items, including known or 
possible non-compliance as set out in certain 
key audit matters disclosures in the “Key audit 
matters: our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement” section of this report. 

We communicated identified laws and 
regulations throughout our team and 
remained alert to any indications of non-
compliance throughout the audit. 

As with any audit, there remained a higher  
risk of non-detection of non-compliance  
with relevant areas of laws and regulations,  
as these may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations,  
or the override of internal controls. 

The purpose of our audit work and to whom 
we owe our responsibilities 
This report is made solely to the Company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company's members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company's members,  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed. 

Guy Bainbridge (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory 
Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL

21 February 2018

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 233

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements

For the year ended 31 December Notes
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
Continuing operations
Interest income 3 13,631 14,541 13,953
Interest expense 3 (3,786) (4,004) (3,345)
Net interest income 9,845 10,537 10,608
Fee and commission income 4 8,751 8,570 8,470
Fee and commission expense 4 (1,937) (1,802) (1,611)
Net fee and commission income 6,814 6,768 6,859
Net trading income 5 3,500 2,768 3,426
Net investment income 6 861 1,324 1,097
Other income 56 54 50
Total income 21,076 21,451 22,040
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 7 (2,336) (2,373) (1,762)
Net operating income 18,740 19,078 20,278
Staff costs 8 (8,560) (9,423) (8,853)
Infrastructure costs 8 (2,949) (2,998) (2,691)
Administration and general expenses 8 (3,247) (2,917) (2,983)
Provision for UK customer redress (700) (1,000) (2,772)
Provision for ongoing investigations and litigation relating to Foreign Exchange  –  – (1,237)
Operating expenses 8 (15,456) (16,338) (18,536)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 70 70 41
Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 9 187 420 (637)
Profit before tax 3,541 3,230 1,146
Taxation 10 (2,240) (993) (1,149)
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 1,301 2,237 (3)
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation (2,195) 591 626
(Loss)/profit after tax (894) 2,828 623

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (1,922) 1,623 (394)
Other equity instrument holdersa 639 457 345
Total equity holders of the parent (1,283) 2,080 (49)
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations 33 249 346 348
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operation 33 140 402 324
(Loss)/profit after tax (894) 2,828 623

Earnings per share
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share 11 (10.3) 10.4 (1.9)
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 11 3.5 9.3 (3.7)
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation 11 (13.8) 1.1 1.8
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share 11 (10.1) 10.3 (1.9)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 11 3.4 9.2 (3.7)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation 11 (13.5) 1.1 1.8

Note
a  The profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders of £639m (2016: £457m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £174m (2016: £128m). The net  

amount of £465m (2016: £329m), along with non-controlling interests (NCI) is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share and return on average 
shareholders' equity.

Consolidated income statement

234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
(Loss)/profit after tax (894) 2,828 623
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 1,301 2,237 (3)
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation (2,195) 591 626

Other comprehensive (loss)/income that may be recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations:
Currency translation reserve
Currency translation differencesa (1,337) 3,024 748
Available for sale reserve
Net gains from changes in fair value 473 2,147 64
Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal (294) (912) (374)
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 3 20 17
Net losses/(gains) transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 283 (1,677) (148)
Changes in insurance liabilities and other movements 11 53 86
Tax (27) (18) 126
Cash flow hedging reserve
Net (losses)/gains from changes in fair value (626) 1,455 (312)
Net gains transferred to net profit (643) (365) (238)
Tax 321 (292) 57
Other (5) 13 20
Other comprehensive (loss)/income that may be recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations (1,841) 3,448 46

Other comprehensive income/(loss) not recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations:
Retirement benefit remeasurements 115 (1,309) 1,176
Own credit (7)  –  – 
Tax (66) 329 (260)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) not recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations 42 (980) 916

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year from continuing operations (1,799) 2,468 962

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year from discontinued operation 1,301 1,520 (1,348)

Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year:
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax from continuing operations (498) 4,705 959
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax from discontinued operation (894) 2,111 (722)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (1,392) 6,816 237

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (1,749) 5,233 45
Non-controlling interests 357 1,583 192
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (1,392) 6,816 237

Note
a  Includes £189m loss (2016: £101m gain) on recycling of currency translation differences.

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 235

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements

As at 31 December Notes
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 102,353 49,711
Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,153 1,467 1,011
Trading portfolio assets 13 113,760 80,240 77,348
Financial assets designated at fair value 14 116,281 78,608 76,830
Derivative financial instruments 15 237,669 346,626 327,709
Financial investments 16 58,916 63,317 90,267
Loans and advances to banks 20 35,663 43,251 41,349
Loans and advances to customers 20 365,552 392,784 399,217
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 22 12,546 13,454 28,187
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2,389 2,893 3,010
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 718 684 573
Property, plant and equipment 23 2,572 2,825 3,468
Goodwill and intangible assets 24 7,849 7,726 8,222
Current tax assets 10 482 561 415
Deferred tax assets 10 3,457 4,869 4,495
Retirement benefit assets 35 966 14 836
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 43 1,193 71,454 7,364
Total assets  1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 37,723 48,214 47,080
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 446 636 1,013
Customer accounts 429,121 423,178 418,242
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 22 40,338 19,760 25,035
Trading portfolio liabilities 13 37,351 34,687 33,967
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 17 173,718 96,031 91,745
Derivative financial instruments 15 238,345 340,487 324,252
Debt securities in issue 73,314 75,932 69,150
Subordinated liabilities 30 23,826 23,383 21,467
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 26 8,565 8,871 10,610
Provisions 27 3,543 4,134 4,142
Current tax liabilities 10 586 737 903
Deferred tax liabilities 10 44 29 122
Retirement benefit liabilities 35 312 390 423
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 43  – 65,292 5,997
Total liabilities 1,067,232 1,141,761 1,054,148
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 31 22,045 21,842 21,586
Other equity instruments 31 8,941 6,449 5,305
Other reserves 32 5,383 6,051 1,898
Retained earnings 27,536 30,531 31,021
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 63,905 64,873 59,810
Non-controlling interests 33 2,111 6,492 6,054
Total equity  66,016 71,365 65,864
Total liabilities and equity  1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012

The Board of Directors approved the financial statements on pages 234 to 322 on 21 February 2018.

John McFarlane 
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director 

Consolidated balance sheet

236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements

Called up
share

capital
and share
premiuma

£m

Other
 equity
 instru-
mentsa

£m

Available 
for sale
reserveb

£m

Cash
flow

hedging
reserveb

£m

Currency
trans-
lation

reserveb
£m

Own 
credit

 reserveb 
£m

Other
reserves

 and
 treasury

 sharesb
£m

Retained
earnings

£m

Total
 equity

  excluding
non-

controlling
 interests 

£m

Non-
controlling

interests
£m

Total
equity

£m
Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051 – 969 30,531 64,873 6,492 71,365
Effects of changes in accounting policiesc – – – – – (175) – 175 – – –
Balance as at 1 January 2017 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051 (175) 969 30,706 64,873 6,492 71,365
Profit after tax – 639 – – – – – 413 1,052 249 1,301
Currency translation movements – – – – (1,336) – – – (1,336) (1) (1,337)
Available for sale investments – – 449 – – – – – 449 – 449
Cash flow hedges – – – (948) – – – – (948) – (948)
Pension remeasurement – – – – – – – 53 53 – 53
Own credit reserve – – – – – (11) – – (11) – (11)
Other – – – – – – – (5) (5) – (5)
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
continuing operations – 639 449 (948) (1,336) (11) – 461 (746) 248 (498)
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operation – – (11) 4 1,339 – – (2,335) (1,003) 109 (894)
Total comprehensive income for the year – 639 438 (944) 3 (11) – (1,874) (1,749) 357 (1,392)
Issue of new ordinary shares 117 – – – – – – – 117 – 117
Issue of shares under employee share 
schemes 86 – – – – – – 505 591 – 591
Issue and exchange of other equity 
instruments – 2,490 – – – – – – 2,490 – 2,490
Other equity instruments coupons paid – (639) – – – – – 174 (465) – (465)
Redemption of preference shares – – – – – – – (479) (479) (860) (1,339)
Increase in treasury shares – – – – – – (315) – (315) – (315)
Vesting of shares under employee share 
schemes – – – – – – 329 (636) (307) – (307)
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (509) (509) (415) (924)
Net equity impact of BAGL disposal – – – – – – – (359) (359) (3,462) (3,821)
Other reserve movements – 2 – – – 7 – 8 17 (1) 16
Balance as at 31 December 2017 22,045 8,941 364 1,161 3,054 (179) 983 27,536 63,905 2,111 66,016

Balance as at 1 January 2016 21,586 5,305 317 1,261 (623)  – 943 31,021 59,810 6,054 65,864
Profit after tax  – 457  –  –  –  –  – 1,434 1,891 346 2,237
Currency translation movements  –  –  –  – 3,022  –  –  – 3,022 2 3,024
Available for sale investments  –  – (387)  –  –  –  –  – (387)  – (387)
Cash flow hedges  –  –  – 798  –  –  –  – 798  – 798
Pension remeasurement  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (980) (980)  – (980)
Other  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 12 12 1 13
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
continuing operations  – 457 (387) 798 3,022  –  – 466 4,356 349 4,705
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operation  –  – (4) 46 652  –  – 183 877 1,234 2,111
Total comprehensive income for the year  – 457 (391) 844 3,674  –  – 649 5,233 1,583 6,816
Issue of new ordinary shares 68  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 68  – 68
Issue of shares under employee share 
schemes 188  –  –  –  –  –  – 668 856  – 856
Issue and exchange of other equity 
instruments  – 1,132  –  –  –  –  –  – 1,132  – 1,132
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (457)  –  –  –  –  – 128 (329)  – (329)
Redemption of preference shares  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (417) (417) (1,170) (1,587)
Increase in treasury shares  –  –  –  –  –  – (140)  – (140)  – (140)
Vesting of shares under employee share 
schemes  –  –  –  –  –  – 166 (415) (249)  – (249)
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (757) (757) (575) (1,332)
Net equity impact of partial BAGL disposal  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (349) (349) 601 252
Other reserve movements  – 12  –  –  –  –  – 3 15 (1) 14
Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051  – 969 30,531 64,873 6,492 71,365

Notes
a For further details refer to Note 31.
b For further details refer to Note 32.
c As a result of the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit which was previously recorded in the income statement is now recognised 

within other comprehensive income. The cumulative unrealised own credit net loss of £175m has therefore been reclassified from retained earnings to a separate own credit 
reserve, within other reserves. During 2017, a £4m loss (net of tax) on own credit has been booked in the reserve. 

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 237

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Consolidated financial statements

For the year ended 31 December Notes
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
Continuing operations
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 3,541 3,230 1,146
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Allowance for impairment 2,336 2,357 1,752
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 1,241 1,261 1,215
Other provisions, including pensions 1,875 1,964 4,241
Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment (325) (912) (374)
Other non-cash movements including exchange rate movements 1,031 (20,025) 226
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Net decrease/(increase) in loans and advances to banks and customers 27,361 (25,385) 22,641
Net decrease in reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending 908 14,733 103,471
Net (decrease)/increase in deposits and debt securities in issue (7,166) 49,064 (33,120)
Net increase/(decrease) in repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing 20,578 (4,852) (99,602)
Net decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments 6,815 (2,318) (3,315)
Net (increase)/decrease in trading assets (33,492) (5,577) 37,091
Net increase/(decrease) in trading liabilities 2,664 880 (10,877)
Net decrease/(increase) in financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 40,014 807 (3,064)
Net (increase) in other assets (3,775) (2,629) (2,661)
Net (decrease) in other liabilities (2,187) (532) (1,766)
Corporate income tax paid 10 (708) (780) (1,670)
Net cash from operating activities 60,711 11,286 15,334
Purchase of available for sale investments (83,127) (65,086) (120,061)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 88,298 102,515 114,529
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (1,456) (1,707) (1,928)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 283 358 393
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed (1,060) – –
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 358 595 –
Other cash flows associated with investing activities 206 32 516
Net cash from investing activities 3,502 36,707 (6,551)
Dividends paid and other coupon payments on equity instruments (1,273) (1,304) (1,496)
Issuance of subordinated debt 30 3,041 1,457 879
Redemption of subordinated debt 30 (1,378) (1,143) (556)
Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 2,490 1,400 1,278
Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments (1,339) (1,587) –
Net purchase of treasury shares (580) (140) (679)
Net cash from financing activities 961 (1,317) (574)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (4,773) 10,473 1,689
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 60,401 57,149 9,898
Net cash from discontinued operation 43 101 405 (1,821)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 60,502 57,554 8,077
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 144,110 86,556 78,479
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 204,612 144,110 86,556
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 102,353 49,711
Loans and advances to banks with original maturity less than three months 32,820 38,252 35,876
Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills with original maturity less than three months 682 356 816
Trading portfolio assets with original maturity less than three months 28 – 153
Cash and cash equivalents held for sale – 3,149 –

204,612 144,110 86,556

Interest received was £21,784m (2016: £22,099m; 2015: £20,376m) and interest paid was £10,310m (2016: £8,850m; 2015: £7,534m).

The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to £3,360m  
(2016: £4,254m; 2015: £4,369m).

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid 
investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of three months or less. 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents. 

Consolidated cash flow statement

238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December Notes 
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
Dividends received from subsidiary 674 621 876
Net interest (expense)/income (10) 5 (7)
Other income 44 690 334 227
Operating expenses (96) (26) (6)
Profit before tax 1,258 934 1,090
Tax (111) (60) (43)
Profit after tax 1,147 874 1,047
Other comprehensive income 60 26  – 
Total comprehensive income 1,207 900 1,047

Profit after tax attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders 508 417 702
Other equity instrument holders 639 457 345
Profit after tax 1,147 874 1,047

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders 568 443 702
Other equity instrument holders 639 457 345
Total comprehensive income 1,207 900 1,047

For the year ended 31 December 2017, profit after tax was £1,147m (2016: £874m) and total comprehensive income was £1,207m (2016: £900m). 
Other comprehensive income of £60m (2016: £26m) relates to the gain on available for sale instruments. The Company has 90 members of 
staff (2016: 7).

Balance sheet

As at 31 December Notes 
2017

£m 
2016

£m 

Assets
Investment in subsidiaries 44 39,354 36,553
Loans and advances to subsidiaries 44 23,970 19,421
Financial investments 44 4,782 1,218
Derivative financial instruments 44 161 268
Other assets 202 105
Total assets 68,469 57,565
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 500 547
Subordinated liabilities 44 6,501 3,789
Debt securities in issue 44 22,110 16,893
Other liabilities 153 14
Total liabilities 29,264 21,243
Equity
Called up share capital 31 4,265 4,241
Share premium account 31 17,780 17,601
Other equity instruments 31 8,943 6,453
Other reserves 480 420
Retained earnings 7,737 7,607
Total equity 39,205 36,322
Total liabilities and equity 68,469 57,565

The financial statements on pages 239 to 240 and the accompanying note on page 317 were approved by the Board of Directors on  
21 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by:

John McFarlane
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director

Parent company accounts
Financial statements of Barclays PLC

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 239

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Statement of changes in equity 

Notes

Called up
 share capital

 and share
 premium

£m

Other equity
instruments

£m

Capital
redemption

reserve
£m

Available for
sale reserve

£m

Retained
earnings

£m

Total 
equity

£m

Balance as at 1 January 2017 21,842 6,453 394 26 7,607 36,322
Profit after tax and other comprehensive income  – 639 – 60 508 1,207
Issue of new ordinary shares 117 – – –  – 117
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 86 – – – 27 113
Issue of other equity instruments – 2,490 – –  – 2,490
Vesting of employee share schemes – – – – (11) (11)
Dividends 12 – – – – (509) (509)
Other equity instruments coupons paid – (639) – – 123 (516)
Other –  – –  – (8) (8)
Balance as at 31 December 2017 22,045 8,943 394 86 7,737 39,205

Balance as at 1 January 2016 21,586 5,321 394  – 7,851 35,152
Profit after tax and other comprehensive income  – 457  – 26 417 900
Issue of new ordinary shares 68  –  –  –  – 68
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 188  –  –  –  – 188
Issue of other equity instruments  – 1,132  –  –  – 1,132
Vesting of employee share schemes  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Dividends 12  –  –  –  – (757) (757)
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (457)  –  – 91 (366)
Other  –  –  –  – 5 5
Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,453 394 26 7,607 36,322

Cash flow statement

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 1,258 934 1,090
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 102 37 100
Other non-cash movements 76 62 52
Corporate income tax paid – – (27)
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,436 1,033 1,215
Capital contribution to subsidiary (2,801) (1,250) (1,560)
Net cash used in investing activities (2,801) (1,250) (1,560)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 2,581 1,388 1,771
Net increase in loans and advances to subsidiaries of the Parent (9,707) (10,942) (4,973)
Net increase in debt securities in issue 6,503 9,314 4,052
Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of subordinated debt 3,019 1,671 921
Dividends paid (392) (757) (1,081)
Coupons paid on AT1 instruments (639) (457) (345)
Net cash generated from financing activities 1,365 217 345
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – – –

Net cash generated from operating activities includes:
Dividends received 674 621 876
Interest (paid)/received (10) 5 (7)

The Parent company's principal activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Services 
Limited. Dividends received are treated as operating income.

The Company was not exposed at 31 December 2017 or 2016 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds, which comprised 
loans and advances and other assets which had no market risk or material credit risk. 

 Parent company accounts
Financial statements of Barclays PLC

240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
This section describes Barclays' significant policies and critical accounting estimates that relate to the financial statements and notes as a 
whole. If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a particular note, the accounting policy and/or critical accounting 
estimate is contained with the relevant note.

1 Significant accounting policies

1. Reporting entity
These financial statements are prepared for Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries (the Barclays PLC Group or the Group) under Section 399 of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards, wholesale banking, 
investment banking, wealth management and investment management services. In addition, individual financial statements have been 
presented for the holding company.

2. Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of the Group, and the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations (IFRICs) issued by the Interpretations Committee, as published  
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They are also in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the 
European Union. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and individual financial statements are set  
out below, and in the relevant notes to the financial statements. These policies have been consistently applied. 

3. Basis of preparation
The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair 
valuation of investment property, and particular financial instruments, to the extent required or permitted under IFRS as set out in the relevant 
accounting policies. They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling (£m), the functional currency of Barclays PLC.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 as applicable  
to companies using IFRS.

4. Accounting policies
Barclays prepares financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The Group's significant accounting policies relating to specific financial 
statement items, together with a description of the accounting estimates and judgements that were critical to preparing them, are set  
out under the relevant notes. Accounting policies that affect the financial statements as a whole are set out below.

(i) Consolidation
Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements. 

The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over 
which Barclays PLC has control. The Group has control over another entity when the Group has all of the following:

1) power over the relevant activities of the investee, for example through voting or other rights 

2) exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee and 

3) the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 

The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances. The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee  
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the 
purposes of the consolidation. 

Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control has already been obtained 
and they do not result in loss of control.

As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where the Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the 
exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 with regard to preparing and filing of individual partnership 
financial statements.

Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 36, and a complete list of all subsidiaries is presented in Note 45.

(ii) Foreign currency translation
The Group applies IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. Transactions and balances in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency balances are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rates. 
Exchange gains and losses on such balances are taken to the income statement.

The Group's foreign operations (including subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches) based mainly outside the UK may have different 
functional currencies. The functional currency of an operation is the currency of the main economy to which it is exposed.

Prior to consolidation (or equity accounting) the assets and liabilities of non-Sterling operations are translated at the closing rate and items of 
income, expense and other comprehensive income are translated into Sterling at the rate on the date of the transactions. Exchange differences 
arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in currency translation reserves within equity. These are transferred to the income 
statement when the Group disposes of the entire interest in a foreign operation, when partial disposal results in the loss of control of an interest 
in a subsidiary, when an investment previously accounted for using the equity method is accounted for as a financial asset, or on the disposal 
of an autonomous foreign operation within a branch.

for the year ended 31 December 2017
Notes to the financial statements

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 241

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
for the year ended 31 December 2017
Notes to the financial statements

1 Significant accounting policies continued

(iii) Financial assets and liabilities
The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to the recognition, classification and measurement, and 
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, the impairment of financial assets, and hedge accounting.

Recognition
The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities when it becomes a party to the terms of the contract. Trade date or settlement date 
accounting is applied depending on the classification of the financial asset.

Classification and measurement
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and may be held at fair value or amortised cost depending on the Group's 
intention toward the assets and the nature of the assets and liabilities, mainly determined by their contractual terms.

The accounting policy for each type of financial asset or liability is included within the relevant note for the item. The Group's policies for 
determining the fair values of the assets and liabilities are set out in Note 18.

Derecognition
The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, from its balance sheet where the contractual rights to cash flows 
from the asset have expired, or have been transferred, usually by sale, and with them either substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset  
or significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset.

Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an existing 
financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms – generally a difference of 10% in the present value  
of the cash flows or a substantive qualitative amendment – is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the 
recognition of a new financial liability.

Transactions in which the Group transfers assets and liabilities, portions of them, or financial risks associated with them can be complex and  
it may not be obvious whether substantially all of the risks and rewards have been transferred. It is often necessary to perform a quantitative 
analysis. Such an analysis compares the Group's exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the transfer with its retained exposure after 
the transfer.

A cash flow analysis of this nature may require judgement. In particular, it is necessary to estimate the asset's expected future cash flows  
as well as potential variability around this expectation. The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the nature of the 
asset, with market and market-implied data used to the greatest extent possible. The potential variability around this expectation is typically 
determined by stressing underlying parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios. Probabilities are then assigned 
to each scenario. Stressed parameters may include default rates, loss severity, or prepayment rates.

(iv) Issued debt and equity instruments
The Group applies IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, to determine whether funding is either a financial liability (debt) or equity.

Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities if the contractual arrangement results in the Group having an 
obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset, or a variable number of equity shares, to the holder of the instrument. If this is not 
the case, the instrument is generally an equity instrument and the proceeds included in equity, net of transaction costs. Dividends and other 
returns to equity holders are recognised when paid or declared by the members at the AGM and treated as a deduction from equity.

Where issued financial instruments contain both liability and equity components, these are accounted for separately. The fair value of the debt 
is estimated first and the balance of the proceeds is included within equity.

5. New and amended standards and interpretations 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, with the exception of the accounting treatment of 
own credit on financial liabilities designated at fair value though profit or loss under the fair value option. Barclays has elected to early adopt the 
presentation of Barclays own credit gains and losses in other comprehensive income as allowed by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, from  
1 January 2017. This will have no effect on net assets, and any changes due to own credit in prior periods have not been restated. The 
cumulative own credit amount has been reclassified from retained earnings to a separate reserve. Any realised and unrealised amounts 
recognised in other comprehensive income will not be reclassified to the income statement in future periods; refer to Note 32 for further details.

There were no other material or amended standards or interpretations that resulted in a change in accounting policy.  

Future accounting developments
There have been and are expected to be a number of significant changes to the Group's financial reporting after 2017 as a result of amended  
or new accounting standards that have been or will be issued by the IASB. The most significant of these are as follows:

IFRS 9 – Financial instruments
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is effective for periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2018 and was endorsed by the EU in November 2016. IFRS 9, in particular the impairment requirements, will lead to 
significant changes in the accounting for financial instruments. 

242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
1 Significant accounting policies continued

i) Impairment
IFRS 9 introduces a revised impairment model which will require entities to recognise expected credit losses based on unbiased forward-
looking information. This replaces the existing IAS 39 incurred loss model which only recognises impairment if there is objective evidence that 
a loss has already been incurred and would measure the loss at the most probable outcome. The IFRS 9 impairment model will be applicable to 
all financial assets at amortised cost, lease receivables, debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan 
commitments and financial guarantee contracts. This contrasts to the IAS 39 impairment model which is not applicable to loan commitments 
and financial guarantee contracts, which were covered by IAS 37. In addition, IAS 39 required the impairment of available for sale debt to be 
based on the fair value loss rather than estimated future cash flows as for amortised cost assets. Intercompany exposures, including loan 
commitments and financial guarantee contracts, are also in scope under IFRS 9 in the standalone reporting entity accounts. 

The measurement of expected credit loss will involve increased complexity and judgement including estimation of probabilities of default, 
loss given default, a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives and estimation of exposures at default and 
assessing significant increases in credit risk. It is expected to have a material financial impact and impairment charges will tend to be more 
volatile. Impairment will also be recognised earlier and the amounts will be higher. Unsecured products with longer expected lives, such as 
revolving credit cards, are expected to be most impacted. 

The expected increase in the accounting impairment provision reduces CET1 capital, but the impact is partially mitigated by releasing  
the ‘excess of expected loss over impairment' deduction from CET1 capital. In addition, the European Union will be adopting transitional 
arrangements to mitigate or spread the capital impacts of IFRS 9 adoption over a five-year period from 1 January 2018, which Barclays will 
apply. Separately, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is considering the need for permanent changes to the regulatory capital 
framework in order to take account of expected credit loss provisioning. 

Key concepts and management judgements
The impairment requirements are complex and require management judgements, estimates and assumptions. Key concepts and management 
judgements include:

■■ Determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition
IFRS 9 requires the recognition of 12 month expected credit losses (the portion of lifetime expected credit losses from default events that are 
expected within 12 months of the reporting date) if credit risk has not significantly increased since initial recognition (stage 1), and lifetime 
expected credit losses for financial instruments for which the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition (stage 2) or which 
are credit impaired (stage 3). Barclays will assess when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred based on quantitative and qualitative 
assessments. Exposures are considered to have resulted in a significant increase in credit risk and are moved to stage 2 when:

 – Quantitative test 
The annualised cumulative weighted average lifetime probability of default has increased by more than the agreed threshold relative 
to the equivalent at origination. The relative thresholds are defined as percentage increases and set at an origination score band and 
segment level.

 – Qualitative test 
Accounts that meet the portfolio's ‘high risk' criteria and are subject to closer credit monitoring. 

 – Backstop criteria 
Accounts that are 30 calendar days or more past due. The 30 days past due criteria is a backstop rather than a primary driver of moving 
exposures into stage 2.

Exposures will move back to stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk and when any cure criteria 
used for credit risk management are met. This is subject to all payments being up to date and the customer evidencing ability and willingness 
to maintain future payments.

Barclays will not rely on the low credit risk exemption which would assume facilities of investment grade are not significantly deteriorated. 

Determining the probability of default at initial recognition is expected to require management estimates, in particular for exposures issued 
before the effective date of IFRS 9. For certain revolving facilities such as credit cards and overdrafts, this is expected to be when the facility  
was first entered into which could be a long time in the past.

Management overlays and other exceptions to model outputs are applied only if consistent with the objective of identifying significant 
increases in credit risk.

■■ Forward-looking information
Credit losses are the expected cash shortfalls from what is contractually due over the expected life of the financial instrument, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate. Expected credit losses are the unbiased probability-weighted credit losses determined by evaluating a range 
of possible outcomes and considering future economic conditions. When there is a non-linear relationship between forward-looking economic 
scenarios and their associated credit losses, a range of forward-looking economic scenarios, currently expected to be a minimum of five, will  
be considered to ensure a sufficient unbiased representative sample of the complete distribution is included in determining the expected loss. 
Stress testing methodologies will be leveraged within forecasting economic scenarios for IFRS 9 purposes.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 243

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
for the year ended 31 December 2017
Notes to the financial statements

1 Significant accounting policies continued

■■ Definition of default, credit impaired assets, write-offs, and interest income recognition
The definition of default for the purpose of determining expected credit losses has been aligned to the Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 
definition of default, which considers indicators that the debtor is unlikely to pay, includes exposures in forbearance and is no later than  
when the exposure is more than 90 days past due or 180 days past due in the case of UK mortgages. When exposures are identified as  
credit impaired or purchased or originated as such, IFRS 9 requires separate disclosure and interest income is required to be calculated  
on the carrying value net of the impairment allowance.

Credit impaired is expected to be when the exposure has defaulted which is also anticipated to align to when an exposure is identified  
as individually impaired under the incurred loss model of IAS 39. Write-off polices are not expected to change from IAS 39.

■■ Expected life
Lifetime expected credit losses must be measured over the expected life. This is restricted to the maximum contractual life and takes into 
account expected prepayment, extension, call and similar options. The exceptions are certain revolver financial instruments, such as credit 
cards and bank overdrafts, that include both a drawn and an undrawn component where the entity's contractual ability to demand repayment 
and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the entity's exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. The expected life for 
these revolver facilities is expected to be behavioural life. Where data is insufficient or analysis inconclusive, an additional ‘maturity factor' may 
be incorporated to reflect the full estimated life of the exposures, based upon experienced judgement and/or peer analysis. Potential future 
modifications of contracts are not taken into account when determining the expected life or exposure at default until they occur. 

■■ Discounting
Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate at initial recognition or an approximation thereof and consistent with income 
recognition. For loan commitments, the effective interest rate is that rate that is expected to apply when the loan is drawn down and a financial 
asset is recognised. Issued financial guarantee contracts are discounted at the risk free rate. Lease receivables are discounted at the rate implicit 
in the lease as prescribed in IAS 17. For variable/floating rate financial assets, the spot rate at the reporting date is used and projections of 
changes in the variable rate over the expected life are not made to estimate future interest cash flows or for discounting. 

■■ Modelling techniques 
Expected credit losses are calculated by multiplying three main components, being the probability of default, loss given default and the 
exposure at default, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The regulatory Basel Committee of Banking Supervisors (BCBS) expected 
credit loss calculations are leveraged for IFRS 9 modelling but adjusted for key differences which include:

 – BCBS requires 12 month through the economic cycle losses, whereas IFRS 9 requires 12 months or lifetime point in time losses based on 
conditions at the reporting date and multiple forecasts of the future economic conditions over the expected lives and

 – IFRS 9 models do not include certain conservative BCBS model floors and downturn assessments and require discounting to the reporting 
date at the original effective interest rate rather than using the cost of capital to the date of default.

Management adjustments will be made to modelled output to account for situations where known or expected risk factors and information 
have not been considered in the modelling process, for example, forecast economic scenarios for uncertain political events. 

Expected credit loss is measured at the individual financial instrument level, however, a collective approach where financial instruments with 
similar risk characteristics are grouped together, with apportionment to individual financial instruments, is used where effects can only be seen 
at a collective level, for example, for forward-looking information. 

For the IFRS 9 impairment assessment, Barclays Risk Models are used to determine the probability of default, loss given default and exposure at 
default. For stage 2 and 3, Barclays applies lifetime probability of defaults but uses 12 month probability of defaults for stage 1. The expected 
credit loss drivers of probability of default , exposure at default and loss given default are modelled at an account level which considers vintage, 
among other credit factors. Also, the assessment of significant increase in credit risk is based on the initial lifetime probability of default curve, 
which accounts for the different credit risk underwritten over time.

ii) Forbearance 
Both performing and non-performing forbearance assets are classified as stage 3 except where it is established that the concession granted has 
not resulted in diminished financial obligation and that no other regulatory definitions of default criteria has been triggered, in which case the 
asset is classified as stage 2. The minimum probationary period for non-performing forbearance is 12 months and for performing forbearance, 
24 months. Hence, a minimum of 36 months is required for non-performing forbearance to move out of a forborne state.

iii) Project governance and credit risk management
Barclays has a jointly accountable Risk and Finance implementation and governance programme with representation from all impacted 
departments. The current Impairment Committee structures were initiated and tested from H1 2017, providing oversight for both IAS 39  
and IFRS 9 impairment results.

The impairment reporting process commences with the production of economic scenarios. The Senior Scenario Review Committee (SSRC) 
reviews and approves the scenario narratives, the core set of macroeconomic variables, probability weightings, and any scenario specific 
management overlays which are used in all expected credit loss models. The SSRC attests that the scenarios adequately account for the 
non-linearity and asymmetry of the loss distribution. 

The Group Impairment Committee, formed of members from both Finance and Risk and attended by both the Group Finance Director and  
the CRO, is responsible for overseeing impairment policy and practice across Barclays Group and will approve impairment results.

Reported results and key messages are communicated to the Board Audit Committee, which has an oversight role and provides challenge  
of key assumptions, including the basis of the scenarios adopted.

244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
1 Significant accounting policies continued

iv) Classification and measurement
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified on the basis of two criteria:

1) the business model within which financial assets are managed, and

2) their contractual cash flow characteristics (whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payments of principal and interest').

Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.

Financial assets will be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they are held within a business model whose objective  
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest. 

Business models are determined on initial application and this may differ from the model before 1 January 2018 for certain portfolios. Barclays 
assesses the business model at a portfolio level. Information that is considered in determining the business model includes: 1) policies and 
objectives for the relevant portfolio, 2) how the performance and risks of the portfolio are managed, evaluated and reported to management, 
and 3) the frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, sales expectation for future periods, and the reasons for such sales. Financial 
assets managed on a fair value basis and those that are held for trading are held at fair value through profit and loss.

In assessing whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, terms that could change the contractual cash flows 
so that it would not meet the condition for solely payments of principal and interest are considered, including: 1) contingent and leverage 
features, 2) non-recourse arrangements and 3) features that could modify the time value of money. 

Other financial assets are measured at fair value through profit and loss. There is an option to make an irrevocable election for non-traded 
equity investments to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in which case dividends are recognised in profit or loss, 
but gains or losses are not reclassified to profit or loss upon derecognition, and impairment is not recognised in the income statement.

On 12 October 2017, the IASB published an amendment to IFRS 9, relating to prepayment features with negative compensation; this 
amendment is effective from 1 January 2019 with early application permitted, however has yet to be endorsed by the EU. This amendment 
allows financial assets with such features to be measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income provided  
the ‘solely payments of principal and interest' criteria in IFRS 9 are otherwise met. In addition, the amendment to IFRS 9 clarifies that  
a financial asset passes the solely payments of principal and interest criterion regardless of the event or circumstance that causes the early 
termination of the contract, and irrespective of which party pays or receives reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract. 
Such prepayment features are present in some fixed rate corporate and investment bank loans, and are considered to meet the criteria for 
amortised cost under IFRS 9. Prepayment features are consistent with the solely payments of principal and interest criteria if the prepayment 
feature substantially represents unpaid amounts of principal and interest and reasonable compensation for early termination of the contract.

While there are some classification changes these are not significant from a Group perspective. 

v) Hedge accounting
IFRS 9 contains revised requirements on hedge accounting, adoption of which is optional. In addition, certain aspects of IAS 39, being the 
portfolio fair value hedge for interest rate risk, continues to be available for entities (while applying IFRS 9 to the remainder of the entity's  
hedge accounting relationships) until the IASB completes its accounting for dynamic risk management project. 

Based on analysis performed, Barclays will continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting, although it will implement the amended IFRS 7 hedge 
accounting disclosure requirements.

vi) Own credit
Barclays has applied the option in IFRS 9 to recognise changes in own credit for financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and 
loss under the fair value option in other comprehensive income from 1 January 2017.

vii) Expected impact
IFRS 9 will be applied retrospectively on adoption on 1 January 2018. Opening shareholders' equity is expected to decrease by approximately 
£2.2bn post-tax. This impact assessment has been estimated under an interim control environment with models that continue to undergo 
validation. The implementation of the comprehensive end state control environment will continue as Barclays introduces business as usual 
controls throughout 2018. Barclays will not restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.

IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. 
It applies to all contracts with customers except leases, financial instruments and insurance contracts. The standard establishes a more 
systematic approach for revenue measurement and recognition by introducing a five-step model governing revenue recognition. The five-step 
model includes: 1) identifying the contract with the customer, 2) identifying each of the performance obligations included in the contract,  
3) determining the amount of consideration in the contract, 4) allocating the consideration to each of the identified performance obligations 
and 5) recognising revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. In April 2016, the IASB issued clarifying amendments to IFRS 15 which 
provide additional application guidance, but did not change the underlying principles of the standard. The standard was endorsed by the EU  
in September 2016. 

Barclays will implement this standard on 1 January 2018. Barclays has elected the cumulative effect transition method with a transition 
adjustment calculated as of 1 January 2018, and recognised in retained earnings without restating comparative periods. There are no significant 
impacts from the adoption of IFRS 15 in relation to the timing of when Barclays recognises revenues or when revenue should be recognised 
gross as a principal or net as an agent.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 245

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
for the year ended 31 December 2017
Notes to the financial statements

1 Significant accounting policies continued

IFRS 16 – Leases
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, which will replace IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 will apply to all leases with the exception of licenses 
of intellectual property, rights held by licensing agreement within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, service concession arrangements, 
leases of biological assets within the scope of IAS 41 Agriculture, and leases of minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources. 
IFRS 16 will not result in a significant change to lessor accounting; however for lessee accounting there will no longer be a distinction between 
operating and finance leases. Instead, lessees will be required to recognise both a right of use asset and lease liability on-balance sheet for all 
leases. As a result, Barclays will observe an increase in both assets and liabilities for transactions currently accounted for as operating leases  
as at 1 January 2019 (the effective date of IFRS 16). A scope exemption will apply to short-term and low-value leases. Current project 
implementation efforts are focused on preparing and sourcing information. The standard was endorsed by the EU in November 2017.  
Barclays will implement this standard on 1 January 2019. Barclays is currently assessing the expected impact of adopting this standard. 

IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts 
In May 2017, the IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, a comprehensive new accounting standard for insurance contracts covering 
recognition and measurement, presentation and disclosure. Once effective, IFRS 17 will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts that was issued  
in 2005.

IFRS 17 applies to all types of insurance contracts (i.e. life, non-life, direct insurance and re-insurance), regardless of the type of entities that 
issue them, as well as to certain guarantees and financial instruments with discretionary participation features. A few scope exceptions will 
apply. The standard is effective from 1 January 2021 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU. Barclays is currently assessing the expected 
impact of adopting this standard. 

IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions – Amendments to IFRS 2
The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment that address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the 
measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction; the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement 
features for withholding tax obligations; and accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment 
transaction changes its classification from cash settled to equity settled. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on  
or after 1 January 2018. Adoption of the amendments will not have a significant impact on Barclays. 

IFRIC Interpretation 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment
IFRIC 23 clarifies the application of IAS 12 to accounting for income tax treatments that have yet to be accepted by tax authorities, in scenarios 
where it may be unclear how tax law applies to a particular transaction or circumstance, or whether a taxation authority will accept an entity's 
tax treatment. The effective date is 1 January 2019. Barclays is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 23. 

6. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates. It also requires management to exercise 
judgement in applying the accounting policies. The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where 
assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements are highlighted under the relevant note. Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements are disclosed in:
■■ Credit impairment charges on page 250
■■ Tax on page 253
■■ Fair value of financial instruments on page 262
■■ Pensions and post retirement benefits – obligations on page 301
■■ Provisions including conduct and legal, competition and regulatory matters on page 283.

7. Other disclosures
To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, certain disclosures required under IFRS have 
been included within the Risk review section as follows:
■■ Credit risk on page 127 and the tables on pages 138 to 158
■■ Market risk on page 129 and the tables on pages 159 to 163
■■ Treasury and capital risk – capital on page 130 and the tables on pages 179 to 187 
■■ Treasury and capital risk – liquidity on page 130 and the tables on pages 166 to 178.

These disclosures are covered by the Audit opinion (included on pages 228 to 233) where referenced as audited. 

246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on the results and performance of the Group. Information on the income generated, expenditure 
incurred, segmental performance, tax, earnings per share and dividends are included here. For further detail on performance, please see income 
statement commentary within Financial review (unaudited) on page 209.

2 Segmental reporting

Presentation of segmental reporting
The Group's segmental reporting is in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the 
operating segments, and has been identified as the chief operating decision maker. All transactions between business segments are conducted 
on an arm's-length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head Office. Income and expenses directly associated with 
each segment are included in determining business segment performance.

Barclays PLC is a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank and for segmental reporting purposes defines its divisions as follows:
■■ Barclays UK which offers everyday products and services to retail customers and small to medium sized enterprises based in the UK. The 

division includes the UK Personal business; the small UK Corporate and UK Wealth businesses; and the Barclaycard UK consumer credit cards 
business.

■■ Barclays International which delivers products and services designed for our larger corporate, wholesale and international banking clients. The 
division includes the large UK Corporate business; the international Corporate and Wealth businesses; the Investment Bank; the international 
Barclaycard business; and Barclaycard Business Solutions.

■■ Head Office which comprises head office and central support functions (including treasury) and businesses in transition.

The Non-Core segment was closed on 1 July 2017, with the residual assets and liabilities reintegrated into, and associated financial performance 
subsequently reported in, Barclays UK, Barclays International and Head Office. Financial results up until 30 June 2017 are reflected in the Non-Core 
segment within the Group's results for the year ended 31 December 2017. Comparative results have not been restated.

Analysis of results by business

Barclays UK 
£m

Barclays
 International 

£m

Head
 Officea

£m

Barclays
 Non-Coreb

£m

Group 
results

£m

For the year ended 31 December 2017
Total income 7,383 14,382 (159) (530) 21,076
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (783) (1,506) (17) (30) (2,336)
Net operating income/(expenses) 6,600 12,876 (176) (560) 18,740
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (4,030) (9,321) (277) (256) (13,884)
UK bank levy (59) (265) (41) – (365)
Litigation and conduct (759) (269) (151) (28) (1,207)
Operating expenses (4,848) (9,855) (469) (284) (15,456)
Other net (expenses)/incomec (5) 254 (189) 197 257
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 1,747 3,275 (834) (647) 3,541
Total assets (£bn) 237.4 856.1 39.7 – 1,133.2
Number of employees (full time equivalent)d 22,800 11,500 45,600 – 79,900

For the year ended 31 December 2016
Total income 7,517 14,995 103 (1,164) 21,451
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (896) (1,355) – (122) (2,373)
Net operating income/(expenses) 6,621 13,640 103 (1,286) 19,078
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (3,792) (9,129) (135) (1,509) (14,565)
UK bank levy (48) (284) (2) (76) (410)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (48) (27) (246) (1,363)
Operating expenses (4,882) (9,461) (164) (1,831) (16,338)
Other net (expenses)/income (1) 32 128 331 490
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 1,738 4,211 67 (2,786) 3,230
Total assets (£bn)e 209.6 648.5 75.2 279.7 1,213.0
Number of employees (full time equivalent)f  36,000  36,900  100  5,500  119,300

Notes
a The reintegration of Non-Core assets on 1 July 2017 resulted in the transfer of c.£9bn of assets into Head Office relating to a portfolio of Italian mortgages. The portfolio 

generated a loss before tax of £37m in the second half of the year and included assets of £9bn as at 31 December 2017.
b  The Non-Core segment was closed on 1 July 2017. Financial results up until 30 June 2017 are reflected in the Non-Core segment for 2017.
c Other net (expenses)/income represents the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, profit (or loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 

and gains on acquisitions.
d As a result of the establishment of the Group Service Company in September 2017, employees who are now employed by the Group Service Company and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office.
e Africa Banking assets held for sale were reported in Head Office for 2016.
f Number of employees included 40,800 in relation to Africa Banking for 2016.

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 247

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

2 Segmental reporting continued
Analysis of results by business

Barclays 
UK 
£m

Barclays
 International 

£m

Head
 Office

£m

Barclays
 Non-Core

£m

Group 
results

£m

For the year ended 31 December 2015
Total income 7,343 13,747 338 612 22,040
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (706) (922) – (134) (1,762)
Net operating income 6,637 12,825 338 478 20,278
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and litigation and conduct (3,464) (8,029) (272) (1,958) (13,723)
UK bank levy (77) (253) (8) (88) (426)
Litigation and conduct (2,511) (1,310) (66) (500) (4,387)
Operating expenses (6,052) (9,592) (346) (2,546) (18,536)
Other net income/(expenses)a – 45 (106) (535) (596)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 585 3,278 (114) (2,603) 1,146
Total assets (£bn)b 202.5 532.2 59.4 325.8 1,120.0
Number of employees (full time equivalent)c  38,800  39,100  100  9,900  129,400

Notes
a Other net income/(expenses) represents the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, profit (or loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 

and gains on acquisitions.
b Africa Banking assets held for sale were reported in Head Office for 2015.
c Number of employees included 41,500 in relation to Africa Banking for 2015.

Income by geographic region

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Continuing operations
United Kingdom 11,190 11,096 12,160
Europe 1,663 2,087 2,245
Americas 7,443 7,278 6,610
Africa and Middle East 251 419 387
Asia  529 571 638
Total 21,076 21,451 22,040

Income from individual countries which represent more than 5% of total incomea

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Continuing operations
United Kingdom 11,190 11,096 12,160
United States 6,871 6,876 6,228

Note
a  Total income based on counterparty location. Income from each single external customer does not amount to 10% or greater of the Group's total income.

248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
3 Net interest income

Accounting for interest income and expenses
The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Interest income on loans and advances at amortised cost, 
financial investments debt securities, and interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost, are calculated using the effective 
interest method which allocates interest, and direct and incremental fees and costs, over the expected lives of the assets and liabilities.

The effective interest method requires the Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customers' behaviour, 
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as the expected lives of the assets and liabilities. 

Barclays incurs certain costs to originate credit card balances with the most significant being co-brand partner fees. To the extent these costs 
are attributed to revolving customer balances they are capitalised and subsequently included within the calculation of the effective interest rate. 
They are amortised to interest income over the period of expected repayment of the originated balance.  Costs attributed to transacting 
customer balances are recorded within fee and commission expense when incurred. There are no other individual estimates involved in the 
calculation of effective interest rates that are material to the results or financial position.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Cash and balances with central banks 583 186 157
Financial investments 754 740 698
Loans and advances to banks 286 600 487
Loans and advances to customers 11,783 12,958 12,512
Other 225 57 99
Interest income 13,631 14,541 13,953
Deposits from banks (370) (265) (128)
Customer accounts (1,123) (1,514) (1,406)
Debt securities in issue (915) (990) (553)
Subordinated liabilities (1,223) (1,104) (1,015)
Other (155) (131) (243)
Interest expense (3,786) (4,004) (3,345)
Net interest income 9,845 10,537 10,608

Costs to originate credit card balances of £497m (2016: £480m; 2015: £368m) have been amortised to interest income during the year.

Interest income includes £48m (2016: £75m; 2015: £91m) accrued on impaired loans.

Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 15 amounting to £43m (2016: £71m; 2015: £81m).

4 Net fee and commission income

Accounting for net fee and commission income  
The Group applies IAS 18 Revenue. Fees and commissions charged for services provided or received by the Group are recognised as the services 
are provided, for example on completion of the underlying transaction.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Fee and commission income
Banking, investment management and credit related fees and commissions 8,622 8,452 8,340
Foreign exchange commission 129 118 130
Fee and commission income 8,751 8,570 8,470
Fee and commission expense (1,937) (1,802) (1,611)
Net fee and commission income 6,814 6,768 6,859

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 249

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

5 Net trading income

Accounting for net trading income
In accordance with IAS 39, trading positions are held at fair value, and the resulting gains and losses are included in the income statement, 
together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.

Income arises from both the sale and purchase of trading positions, margins which are achieved through market-making and customer 
business and from changes in fair value caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.

Own credit gains/(losses)
As a result of the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit on financial liabilities designated at fair 
value through profit and loss which was previously recorded in the income statement is now recognised within other comprehensive income.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Trading income 3,500 2,803 2,996
Own credit (losses)/gains – (35) 430
Net trading income 3,500 2,768 3,426

Included within net trading income were gains of £640m (2016: £31m gain; 2015: £992m gain) on financial assets designated at fair value and 
gains of £472m (2016: £346m gain; 2015: £187m loss) on financial liabilities designated at fair value.

6 Net investment income

Accounting for net investment income 
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive the dividend has been established. Other accounting policies relating to net investment 
income are set out in Note 14 and Note 16.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Net gain from disposal of available for sale investments 298 912 385
Dividend income 48 8 8
Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 338 158 193
Other investment income 177 246 511
Net investment income 861 1,324 1,097

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions

Accounting for the impairment of financial assets
Loans and other assets held at amortised cost
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that loan assets will not be 
recovered in full and, wherever necessary, recognises an impairment loss in the income statement.

An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of events that have occurred and these have adversely 
impacted the estimated future cash flows from the assets. These events include:
■■ becoming aware of significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor
■■ a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments
■■ the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower's financial difficulty, grants a concession that it would not otherwise 

consider
■■ it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
■■ the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties
■■ observable data at a portfolio level indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, although the decrease 

cannot yet be ascribed to individual financial assets in the portfolio – such as adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the 
portfolio or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.

Impairment assessments are conducted individually for significant assets, which comprise all wholesale customer loans and larger retail 
business loans, and collectively for smaller loans and for portfolio level risks, such as country or sectoral risks. For the purposes of the 
assessment, loans with similar credit risk characteristics are grouped together – generally on the basis of their product type, industry, 
geographical location, collateral type, past due status and other factors relevant to the evaluation of expected future cash flows.

The impairment assessment includes estimating the expected future cash flows from the asset or the group of assets, which are then 
discounted using the original effective interest rate calculated for the asset. If this is lower than the carrying value of the asset or the portfolio, 
an impairment allowance is raised.

If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of the 
reversal is recognised in the income statement.

Following impairment, interest income continues to be recognised at the original effective interest rate on the restated carrying amount, 
representing the unwind of the discount of the expected cash flows, including the principal due on non-accrual loans.

Uncollectable loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Group's internal processes when 
all reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to 
the income statement.

250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
 7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued

Available for sale financial assets
Impairment of available for sale debt instruments
Debt instruments are assessed for impairment in the same way as loans. If impairment is deemed to have occurred, the cumulative decline in 
the fair value of the instrument that has previously been recognised in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and recognised in 
the income statement. This may be reversed if there is evidence that the circumstances of the issuer have improved.

Impairment of available for sale equity instruments
Where there has been a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of an equity instrument below its acquisition cost, it is deemed to be 
impaired. The cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and 
recognised in the income statement.

Increases in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Further declines 
in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised in the income statement.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The calculation of impairment involves the use of judgement based on the Group's experience of managing credit risk.

Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics 
where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, 
based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods. These statistical analyses employ as primary inputs, the extent to which 
accounts in the portfolio are in arrears, and historical information on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios. There 
are many such models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or customer category. Judgement and knowledge is needed in 
selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised. The impairment allowance reflected in the financial 
statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be reasonable and supportable. The impairment charge reflected in the income 
statement for retail portfolios is £2,095m (2016: £2,053m; 2015: £1,535m) and amounts to 90% (2016: 87%; 2015: 88%) of the total 
impairment charge on loans and advances.

For individually significant assets, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a 
bearing on the expected future cash flows are taken into account (for example, the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value 
of collateral, the Group's position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the 
work-out process). The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows 
(discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Subjective judgements are made in the calculation of future 
cash flows. Furthermore, judgements change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in 
frequent revisions to the impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the 
allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment charge. The impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in relation to 
wholesale portfolios is £238m (2016: £299m; 2015: £209m) and amounts to 10% (2016: 13%; 2015: 12%) of the total impairment charge 
on loans and advances. Further information on impairment allowances and related credit information is set out within the Risk review on 
page 156.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

New and increased impairment allowances 3,187 3,259 2,641
Releases (533) (551) (535)
Recoveries (334) (365) (350)
Impairment charges on loans and advances 2,320 2,343 1,756
Provision charges/(releases) for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 13 9 (12)
Loan impairment 2,333 2,352 1,744
Available for sale investment 3 21 18
Reverse repurchase agreements – – –
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 2,336 2,373 1,762

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 251

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

8 Operating expenses

Accounting for staff costs
The Group applies IAS 19 Employee benefits in its accounting for most of the components of staff costs.

Short-term employee benefits – salaries, accrued performance costs and social security are recognised over the period in which the employees 
provide the services to which the payments relate.

Performance costs – recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably and are 
recognised over the period of service that employees are required to work to qualify for the payments.

Deferred cash and share awards are made to employees to incentivise performance over the period employees provide services. To receive 
payment under an award, employees must provide service over the vesting period. The period over which the expense for deferred cash and 
share awards is recognised is based upon the period employees consider their services contribute to the awards. For past awards, the Group 
considers that it is appropriate to recognise the awards over the period from the date of grant to the date that the awards vest. In relation to 
awards granted from 2017, the Group, taking into account the changing employee understanding surrounding those awards, considered it 
appropriate for expense to be recognised over the vesting period including the financial year prior to the grant date. 

The accounting policies for share-based payments, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in Note 34 and 
Note 35 respectively.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Infrastructure costs
Property and equipment 1,363 1,180 1,082
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 446 492 475
Operating lease rentals 342 561 411
Amortisation of intangible assets 715 670 570
Impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 80 95 150
Gain on property disposals 3 – 3
Total infrastructure costs 2,949 2,998 2,691
Administration and general costs
Consultancy, legal and professional fees 1,127 1,105 1,078
Subscriptions, publications, stationery and communications 630 644 678
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship 433 435 451
Travel and accommodation 150 136 188
UK bank levy 365 410 425
Goodwill impairment – – 102
Other administration and general expenses 542 187 61
Total administration and general costs 3,247 2,917 2,983
Staff costs 8,560 9,423 8,853
Provision for UK customer redress 700 1,000 2,772
Provision for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – – 1,237
Operating expenses 15,456 16,338 18,536

9 Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
During the year, the profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was £187m (2016: profit of £420m; 2015: loss of £637m), 
principally relating to the sale of VocaLink and Barclays Wealth Services Japan. Please refer to Note 43 for further detail.

252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
10 Tax

Accounting for income taxes
Barclays applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. Income tax payable on taxable profits (current tax) is recognised as an 
expense in the periods in which the profits arise. Withholding taxes are also treated as income taxes. Income tax recoverable on tax allowable 
losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by off-setting against taxable profits arising in the 
current or prior periods. Current tax is measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.  

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except in certain circumstances where the 
deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is 
determined using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the 
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal 
right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis. 

The Group considers an uncertain tax position to exist when it considers that ultimately, in the future, the amount of profit subject to tax may 
be greater than the amount initially reflected in the Group's tax returns. The Group accounts for provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions 
in two different ways.

A current tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position 
will alter the amount of cash tax due to, or from, a tax authority in the future. From recognition, the current tax provision is then measured at 
the amount the Group ultimately expects to pay the tax authority to resolve the position. 

Deferred tax provisions are adjustments made to the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of uncertain tax positions. A deferred tax 
provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position will result in 
a reduction in the carrying value of the deferred tax asset. From recognition of a provision, measurement of the underlying deferred tax asset is 
adjusted to take into account the expected impact of resolving the uncertain tax position on the loss or temporary difference giving rise to the 
deferred tax asset. 

The approach taken to measurement takes account of whether the uncertain tax position is a discrete position that will be reviewed by the tax 
authority in isolation from any other position, or one of a number of issues which are expected to be reviewed together concurrently and 
resolved simultaneously with a tax authority. Barclays' measurement of provisions is based upon its best estimate of the additional profit that 
will become subject to tax. For a discrete position, consideration is given only to the merits of that position. Where a number of issues are 
expected to be reviewed and resolved together, Barclays will take into account not only the merits of its position in respect of each particular 
issue but also the overall level of provision relative to the aggregate of the uncertain tax positions across all the issues that are expected to be 
resolved at the same time. In addition, in assessing provision levels, it is assumed that tax authorities will review uncertain tax positions and 
that all facts will be fully and transparently disclosed.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
There are two key areas of judgement that impact the reported tax position. Firstly, the level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions; and 
secondly, the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets. 

The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of current and deferred tax balances, 
including provisions for uncertain tax positions in the next financial year. The provisions for uncertain tax positions cover a diverse range of 
issues and reflect advice from external counsel where relevant. It should be noted that only a proportion of the total uncertain tax positions 
will be under audit at any point in time, and could therefore be subject to challenge by a tax authority over the next year. 

Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on business profit forecasts. Details on the recognition of deferred tax assets is provided 
in this note.

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 768 896 1,605 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 55 (361) (188)

823 535 1,417 
Deferred tax charge/(credit)
Current year 1,507 393 (346)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (90) 65 78 

1,417 458 (268)
Tax charge 2,240 993 1,149 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 253

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

10 Tax continued
The table below shows the reconciliation between the actual tax charge and the tax charge that would result from applying the standard UK 
corporation tax rate to the Group's profit before tax.

2017
£m

2017
%

2016
£m

2016
%

2015
£m

2015
%

Profit before tax from continuing operations 3,541 3,230 1,146
Tax charge based on the standard UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 
(2016: 20%; 2015: 20.25%) 682 19.3% 646 20.0% 232 20.3% 
Impact of profits/losses earned in territories with different statutory rates to the UK 
(weighted average tax rate is 29.4% (2016: 32.8%; 2015: 33.4%)) 356 10.1% 415 12.8% 151 13.1% 

Recurring items: 
Non-creditable taxes including withholding taxes 191 5.4% 277 8.6% 309 27.0% 
Non-deductible expenses 90 2.5% 114 3.5% 67 5.8% 
Impact of UK bank levy being non-deductible 70 2.0% 82 2.5% 96 8.4% 
Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 5 0.1% 34 1.1% 30 2.6% 
Non-taxable gains and income (178) (5.0%) (199) (6.2%) (197) (17.2%)
Changes in recognition of deferred tax and effect of unrecognised tax losses (71) (2.0%) (178) (5.5%) (71) (6.2%)
Impact of Barclays Bank PLC's overseas branches being taxed both locally and 
in the UK (61) (1.7%) (128) (4.0%) (35) (3.1%)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (35) (1.0%) (296) (9.2%) (110) (9.6%)
Other items 128 3.6% 88 2.7% 144 12.6% 
Non-recurring items:
Remeasurement of US deferred tax assets due to US tax rate reduction 1,177 33.2% – –  – –  
Impact of the UK branch exemption election on US branch deferred tax assets (276) (7.8%) – –  – –  
Non-deductible provisions for UK customer redress 129 3.6% 203 6.3% 283 24.7% 
Non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation 72 2.0% 48 1.5% 261 22.8% 
Non-taxable gains and income on divestments (39) (1.1%) (180) (5.6%) (50) (4.4%)
Non-deductible impairments and losses on divestments – –  67 2.1% 39 3.4% 
Total tax charge 2,240 63.3% 993 30.7% 1,149 100.3%

Factors driving the effective tax rate
The effective tax rate of 63.3% is higher than the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
(US Tax Reform), enacted on 22 December 2017, which reduced the US federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. As the rate reduction 
was enacted before the balance sheet date, this has resulted in a one-off tax charge as a result of the remeasurement of the Group's US deferred 
tax assets in the 2017 period. This downward remeasurement of the Group's US deferred tax assets as a result of the rate reduction is partially 
offset by the increase in the value of the US branch deferred tax assets as a result of Barclays Bank PLC making a tax election in the period to 
exclude the future profits and losses of its overseas branches from UK taxation.

In addition, the effective tax rate is also affected by profits earned outside the UK being taxed at local statutory tax rates that are higher than the 
UK tax rate, provisions for UK customer redress, investigations and litigation being non-deductible for tax purposes, non-creditable taxes and 
non-deductible expenses including UK bank levy. These factors, which have each increased the effective tax rate, are partially offset by the impact 
of non-taxable gains and income in the period.

The Group's future tax charge will be sensitive to the geographic mix of profits earned and the tax rates in force in the jurisdictions that the Group 
operates in. In the UK, legislation to reduce the corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 has been enacted. 

The reduction of the US federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 1 January 2018 is expected to have a positive impact on the returns 
generated by the Group's US business. The ultimate impact however, is subject to any effect of the Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT), which 
was introduced by US Tax Reform and presented as an anti-avoidance provision, but is capable of having broad application to companies making 
payments to foreign affiliates. The provisions introducing the BEAT are complex and there are currently uncertainties surrounding their practical 
and technical application. The Group is currently considering any future impact of the BEAT which may reduce the benefit of the reduction in the 
US federal corporate income tax rate. 

Tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income can be found in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income which 
additionally includes within Other a tax charge of £5m (2016: £21m credit) relating to share-based payments.

Tax in respect of discontinued operation
Tax relating to the discontinued operation can be found in the BAGL disposal group income statement (refer to Note 43). The tax charge of £154m 
(2016: £306m charge) relates entirely to the profit from the ordinary activities of the discontinued operation. 

254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
10 Tax continued
Current tax assets and liabilities
Movements on current tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Assets 561 415 
Liabilities (737) (903)
As at 1 January (176) (488)
Income statement from continuing operations (823) (535)
Other comprehensive income 93 23 
Corporate income tax paid 708 780 
Other movements 94 44 

(104) (176)
Assets 482 561 
Liabilities (586) (737)
As at 31 December (104) (176)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The deferred tax amounts on the balance sheet were as follows:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Intermediate Holding Company (IHC Tax Group) 1,413 2,207 
Barclays Bank PLC (US Branch Tax Group) 1,234 1,766 
Barclays PLC – UK tax group 492 575 
Other 318 321 
Deferred tax asset 3,457 4,869 
Deferred tax liability (44) (29)
Net deferred tax 3,413 4,840 

US deferred tax assets in the IHC and US Branch Tax Groups
The deferred tax asset in the IHC Tax Group of £1,413m (2016: £2,207m) includes £286m (2016: £321m) relating to tax losses and the deferred 
tax asset in the US Branch Tax Group of £1,234m (2016: £1,766m) includes £283m (2016: £142m) relating to tax losses. The deferred tax assets 
of the Group's US business have been remeasured due to the reduction in the US federal corporate income tax rate enacted in the year. No 
account has been taken of the impact of any potential future BEAT liabilities in measuring the US deferred tax assets and liabilities and any future 
BEAT liabilities would be accounted for in the period they arise. Under US tax rules, losses occurring prior to 1 January 2018 can be carried forward 
and offset against profits for a period of 20 years. The losses first arose in 2011 in the IHC Tax Group and 2008 in the US Branch Tax Group and 
therefore, any unused amounts may begin to expire in 2031 and 2028 respectively. The remaining US deferred tax assets relate to temporary 
differences for which there is no time limit on recovery. The deferred tax assets for the IHC and the US Branch Tax Groups' tax losses are currently 
projected to be fully utilised by 2019.

In prior periods, the US Branch deferred tax assets have been measured as the difference between the UK and US tax rates to take into account 
UK taxation expected to arise on the profits of the US Branch. During the period, Barclays Bank PLC made a UK tax election that causes the future 
profits or losses of the Company's overseas branches to be excluded from the charge to UK tax and therefore subject to tax only in the applicable 
overseas jurisdiction. The deferred tax assets held by the US Branch of Barclays Bank PLC have been remeasured to the US tax rate as a result of 
this election.

UK tax group deferred tax asset
The deferred tax asset in the UK tax group of £492m (2016: £575m) relates entirely to temporary differences. 

Other deferred tax assets
The deferred tax asset of £318m (2016: £321m) in other entities within the Group includes £27m (2016: £40m) relating to tax losses carried 
forward. These deferred tax assets relate to a number of different territories and their recognition is based on profit forecasts or local country 
law which indicate that it is probable that the losses and temporary differences will be utilised.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 255

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

10 Tax continued
Of the deferred tax asset of £318m (2016: £321m), an amount of £218m (2016: £267m) relates to entities which have suffered a loss in either 
the current or prior year. This has been taken into account in reaching the above conclusion that these deferred tax assets will be fully recovered 
in the future.  

The table below shows movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. The amounts are different from those disclosed on the 
balance sheet and in the preceding table as they are presented before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off 
and an intention to settle on a net basis.

Fixed asset
timing

differences
£m

Available
for sale

investments
£m

Cash flow
hedges

£m

Retirement
benefit

obligations
£m

Loan
impairment

allowance
£m

Other
provisions

£m

Tax losses
carried

forward
£m

Share-based
payments 

 and deferred
  compensation

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m
Assets 1,801 183 – 91 151 251 503 732 2,013 5,725
Liabilities (92) (141) (333) – – – – – (319) (885)
At 1 January 2017 1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840
Income statement (353) – – (322) (38) (69) 131 (307) (459) (1,417)
Other comprehensive income – (3) 262 49 – – – (22) 22 308
Other movements (118) – (4) 16 (5) (25) (38) (19) (125) (318)

1,238 39 (75) (166) 108 157 596 384 1,132 3,413
Assets 1,266 200 1 52 108 157 596 384 1,362 4,126
Liabilities (28) (161) (76) (218) – – – – (230) (713)
At 31 December 2017 1,238 39 (75) (166) 108 157 596 384 1,132 3,413

Assets 2,008 28 5 95 157 261 902 623 1,511 5,590
Liabilities (194) (70) (239) (144) – – – – (570) (1,217)
At 1 January 2016 1,814 (42) (234) (49) 157 261 902 623 941 4,373
Income statement (358) 9 (7) (8) 52 17 (522) 15 344 (458)
Other comprehensive income – 49 (61) 132 – – – 20 (6) 134
Other movements 253 26 (31) 16 (58) (27) 123 74 415 791

1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840
Assets 1,801 183 – 91 151 251 503 732 2,013 5,725
Liabilities (92) (141) (333) – – – – – (319) (885)
At 31 December 2016 1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840

Other movements include the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates as well as deferred tax amounts relating to acquisitions, disposals and 
transfers to held for sale. 

The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £522m (2016: £273m). The amount of deferred tax assets 
expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £3,399m (2016: £5,066m). These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances 
where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis. 

Unrecognised deferred tax
Tax losses and temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of gross deductible temporary differences of £157m (2016: £64m) and gross tax losses of 
£17,919m (2016: £16,820m).  The tax losses include capital losses of £3,126m (2016: £3,138m) and unused tax credits of £546m (2016: £514m). 
Of these tax losses, £409m (2016: £394m) expire within five years, £193m (2016: £57m) expire within six to ten years, £2,016m (2016: £358m) 
expire within 11 to 20 years and £15,301m (2016: £16,011m) can be carried forward indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in 
respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits and gains will be available against which they can be utilised. 

Group investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the value of Group's investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates where the Group is able to 
control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The aggregate amount of these temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised decreased in the period to 
£0.1bn (2016: £2bn) following the reduction of the Group's holding in BAGL during 2017.

256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
11 Earnings per share
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and 
discontinued operation (1,922) 1,623 (394)
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders 174 128 70
Total (loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and 
discontinued operation (1,748) 1,751 (324)

Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing operations 413 1,434 (696)
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders 174 128 70
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing operations 587 1,562 (626)

Discontinued operation
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of discontinued operation (2,335) 189 302
Dilutive impact of convertible options in respect of discontinued operation – (1) –
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of discontinued operation including 
dilutive impact on convertible options (2,335) 188 302

–
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and discontinued 
operation including dilutive impact on convertible options (1,748) 1,750 (324)

2017
million

2016
million

2015
million

Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 16,996 16,860 16,687
Number of potential ordinary shares 288 184 367
Diluted weighted average number of shares 17,284 17,044 17,054

Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
2017

p
2016

p
2015

p
2017

p
2016

p
2015

p
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (10.3) 10.4 (1.9) (10.1) 10.3 (1.9)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 3.5 9.3 (3.7) 3.4 9.2 (3.7)
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation (13.8) 1.1 1.8 (13.5) 1.1 1.8

The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the basic weighted average 
number of shares excluding treasury shares held in employee benefit trusts or held for trading. When calculating the diluted earnings per share, 
the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, 
totalling 288m (2016: 184m) shares. The increase in the number of potential ordinary shares is mainly due to the widening of the spread between 
the average share price of £2.08 (2016: £1.74) and the average weighted strike price of £1.41 (2016: £1.88) compared to the prior year. The total 
number of share options outstanding, under schemes considered to be potentially dilutive, was 534m (2016: 584m). These options have strike 
prices ranging from £1.20 to £2.28.

Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2017, 10m (2016: 93m) were anti-dilutive. 

The 136m (2016: 173m) increase in the basic weighted average number of shares since 31 December 2016 to 16,996m is primarily due to shares 
issued under employee share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Programme. 

12 Dividends on ordinary shares
The Directors have approved a final dividend in respect of 2017 of 2.0p per ordinary share of 25p each, which will be paid on 05 April 2018 to 
shareholders on the Share Register on 02 March 2018, resulting in a total dividend of 3.0p per share for the year. On 31 December 2017, there were 
17,060m ordinary shares in issue. The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 does not reflect this dividend, which will be 
accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31 December 2018. The 2017 financial statements 
include the 2017 interim dividends of £170m (2016: £169m) and final dividend declared in relation to 2016 of £339m (2016: £588m). Dividends 
are funded out of distributable reserves, for further detail, see page 88 (unaudited).  

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 257

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

The notes included in this section focus on assets and liabilities the Group holds and recognises at fair value. Fair value refers to the price that 
would be received to sell an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an arm's-length transaction with a willing counterparty, 
which may be an observable market price or, where there is no quoted price for the instrument, may be an estimate based on available market 
data. Detail regarding the Group's approach to managing market risk can be found on page on 129.

13 Trading portfolio

Accounting for trading portfolio assets and liabilities 
In accordance with IAS 39, all assets and liabilities held for trading purposes are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes in fair 
value taken to the income statement in net trading income (Note 5).

Trading portfolio assets Trading portfolio liabilities
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Debt securities and other eligible bills 51,200 38,789 (29,045) (26,842)
Equity securities 59,338 38,329 (8,306) (7,831)
Traded loans 3,140 2,975 – –
Commodities 82 147 – (14)
Trading portfolio assets/(liabilities) 113,760 80,240 (37,351) (34,687)

14 Financial assets designated at fair value

Accounting for financial assets designated at fair value
In accordance with IAS 39, financial assets may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net 
trading income (Note 5) and net investment income (Note 6). The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the 
instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed by 
the Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics described in Note 15.

The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial assets designated at fair value are described in Note 18.

2017
£m

2016
£m

Loans and advances 11,037 10,519
Debt securities 15 70
Equity securities 4,670 4,558
Reverse repurchase agreements 100,040 63,162
Customers' assets held under investment contracts – 37
Other financial assets 519 262
Financial assets designated at fair value 116,281 78,608

Credit risk of loans and advances designated at fair value and related credit derivatives
The following table shows the maximum exposure to credit risk, the changes in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, and the cumulative 
changes in fair value since initial recognition together with the amount by which related credit derivatives mitigate this risk:

Maximum exposure as at 
31 December

Changes in fair value during 
the year ended

Cumulative changes in fair 
value from inception

2017
£m

2016
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Loans and advances designated at fair value, attributable to credit risk 11,037 10,519 10 (42) 2 (42)
Value mitigated by related credit derivatives 256 339 1 (2) (12) (13)

258 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
15 Derivative financial instruments

Accounting for derivatives
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the 
contract. They include swaps, forward-rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the 
Group's net interest income, net trading income and derivative assets and liabilities. Notional amounts of the contracts are not recorded  
on the balance sheet. 

The Group applies IAS 39. All derivative instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss, except for derivatives that are in a designated 
cash flow or net investment hedge accounting relationship. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities 
when their fair value is negative. This includes terms included in a contract or other financial asset or liability (the host), which, had it been  
a standalone contract, would have met the definition of a derivative. If these are separated from the host i.e. when the economic characteristics 
of the embedded derivative are not closely related with those of the host contract and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value 
through profit or loss, then they are accounted for in the same way as derivatives.

Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting to represent, to the maximum possible extent permitted under accounting standards, the economic 
effects of its interest and currency risk management strategies. Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity,  
and equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions. 
Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when transactions meet the required criteria for documentation and hedge 
effectiveness, the Group applies fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging of a net investment in a foreign 
operation, as appropriate to the risks being hedged. 

Fair value hedge accounting 
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with 
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The fair value changes adjust the carrying value 
of the hedged asset or liability held at amortised cost.

If hedge relationships no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate 
risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated 
hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.

Cash flow hedge accounting
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially  
in other comprehensive income, and then recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.  
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.

When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred 
to the income statement.

Hedges of net investments 
The Group's net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items accounted for as part of the net investment, are hedged for 
foreign currency risks using both derivatives and foreign currency borrowings. Hedges of net investments are accounted for similarly to cash 
flow hedges; the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is being recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
and the ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation, or other reductions  
in the Group's investment in the operation. 

Total derivatives 2017 2016
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value
Notional 
contract 
amount 

£m

Fair value
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m

Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236) 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646)
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 231,348 165 (1,109) 336,524 1,002 (841)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 35,918,021 237,669 (238,345) 36,522,344 346,626 (340,487)

Further information on netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments can be found within Note 19.

Trading derivatives are managed within the Group's market risk management policies, which are outlined on page 129.

The Group's exposure to credit risk arising from derivative contracts are outlined in the Credit risk section on page 157.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 259

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

15 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for trading 2017 2016
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value
Notional 
contract 
amount 

£m

Fair value
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m

Foreign exchange derivatives
Forward foreign exchange 3,131,184 26,534 (26,177) 2,308,922 32,442 (30,907)
Currency swaps 1,098,587 23,675 (22,003) 1,086,552 40,083 (40,164)
OTC options bought and sold 506,156 4,056 (4,665) 772,031 6,338 (6,762)
OTC derivatives 4,735,927 54,265 (52,845) 4,167,505 78,863 (77,833)
Foreign exchange derivatives cleared by central counterparty 59,618 607 (585) 43,478 366 (388)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 24,266 30 (30) 18,813 31 (27)
Foreign exchange derivatives 4,819,811 54,902 (53,460) 4,229,796 79,260 (78,248)
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps 5,680,977 121,560 (112,187) 4,799,897 153,822 (143,059)
Forward-rate agreements 268,277 87 (88) 296,559 999 (968)
OTC options bought and sold 2,384,453 27,235 (29,635) 2,522,430 42,412 (43,373)
OTC derivatives 8,333,707 148,882 (141,910) 7,618,886 197,233 (187,400)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterpartya 13,215,545 3,675 (3,390) 14,439,407 30,503 (31,528)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 7,644,560 362 (358) 7,952,733 397 (370)
Interest rate derivatives 29,193,812 152,919 (145,658) 30,011,026 228,133 (219,298)
Credit derivatives
OTC swaps 411,160 7,595 (6,233) 615,057 11,811 (10,513)
Credit derivatives cleared by central counterparty 303,841 4,954 (5,319) 332,743 4,462 (4,572)
Credit derivatives 715,001 12,549 (11,552) 947,800 16,273 (15,085)
Equity and stock index derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 58,456 5,262 (9,591) 102,545 6,766 (8,837)
Equity swaps and forwards 103,283 2,235 (5,478) 105,120 2,253 (4,435)
OTC derivatives 161,739 7,497 (15,069) 207,665 9,019 (13,272)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 632,662 7,201 (9,050) 585,620 8,070 (8,600)
Equity and stock index derivatives 794,401 14,698 (24,119) 793,285 17,089 (21,872)
Commodity derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 4,465 32 (103) 14,053 395 (461)
Commodity swaps and forwards 12,755 662 (753) 16,086 1,528 (1,821)
OTC derivatives 17,220 694 (856) 30,139 1,923 (2,282)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 146,428 1,742 (1,591) 173,774 2,946 (2,861)
Commodity derivatives 163,648 2,436 (2,447) 203,913 4,869 (5,143)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236) 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646)

Total OTC derivatives held for trading 13,659,753 218,933 (216,913) 12,639,252 298,849 (291,300)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held for 
trading 13,579,004 9,236 (9,294) 14,815,628 35,331 (36,488)
Total exchange traded derivatives held for trading 8,447,916 9,335 (11,029) 8,730,940 11,444 (11,858)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236) 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646)

260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
15 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for risk management 2017 2016
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value
Notional 
contract 
amount 

£m

Fair value
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m
Assets

£m
Liabilities

£m
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Currency swaps – – – 1,357 453 – 
Interest rate swaps 1,482 7 (3) 5,965 154 (6)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 122,103 – – 181,541 62 (27)
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 123,585 7 (3) 188,863 669 (33)
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 7,345 117 (1,096) 10,733 301 (744)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 97,436 – – 130,842 – – 
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 104,781 117 (1,096) 141,575 301 (744)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments
Forward foreign exchange 2,982 41 (10) 6,086 32 (64)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments 2,982 41 (10) 6,086 32 (64)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 231,348 165 (1,109) 336,524 1,002 (841)

Total OTC derivatives held for risk management 11,809 165 (1,109) 24,141 940 (814)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held  
for risk management 219,539 – – 312,383 62 (27)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 231,348 165 (1,109) 336,524 1,002 (841)

The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates. These cash flows are expected to impact the 
income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied:

Total
£m

Up to 
one year

£m

One to 
two years

£m

Two to 
three years

£m

Three to 
four years

£m

Four to 
five years

£m

More than 
five years

£m
2017
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,671 484 584 561 416 305 321
Forecast payable cash flows – – – – – – – 

2016
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,616 455 531 511 411 327 381
Forecast payable cash flows 52 15 16 7 6 5 3

The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding 
those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments is 10 years (2016: 10 years).

Amounts recognised in net interest income
2017

£m
2016

£m

Gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 550 1,787
Losses on the hedging instruments (460) (1,741)
Fair value ineffectiveness 90 46
Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness (135) 28
Net investment hedging ineffectiveness 2 (3)

Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement included a £nil (2016: £17m gain) transferred to  
interest income; a £632m gain (2016: £491m gain) to interest expense; a £nil (2016: £17m gain) to administration and general expenses;  
and a £nil (2016: £75m loss) to taxation.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 261

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

16 Financial investments

Accounting for financial investments
Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value with gains and losses being included in other comprehensive income. The Group uses 
this classification for assets that are not derivatives and are not held for trading purposes or otherwise designated at fair value through profit  
or loss, or at amortised cost. Dividends and interest (calculated using the effective interest method) are recognised in the income statement in 
net interest income (Note 3) or, net investment income (Note 6). On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive 
income is also included in net investment income.

Held to maturity assets are held at amortised cost. The Group uses this classification when there is an intent and ability to hold the asset  
to maturity. Interest on the investments are recognised in the income statement within net interest income (Note 3). 

2017
£m

2016
£m

Available for sale debt securities and other eligible bills 52,020 57,703
Available for sale equity securities 1,787 438
Held to maturity debt securities 5,109 5,176
Financial investments 58,916 63,317

17 Financial liabilities designated at fair value

Accounting for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss
In accordance with IAS 39, financial liabilities may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net 
trading income (Note 5) and net investment income (Note 6). Movements in own credit are reported through other comprehensive income 
from January 2017 upon early adoption of IFRS 9. The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the instruments  
at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed by the Group  
on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics (Note 15).

The details on how the fair value amounts are arrived for financial liabilities designated at fair value are described in Note 18.

2017 2016

Fair value
£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m
Fair value

£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m
Debt securities 42,563 46,920 34,985 37,034
Deposits 4,448 4,414 5,269 5,303
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts – – 37 –
Repurchase agreements 126,691 126,822 55,710 55,760
Other financial liabilities 16 16 30 30
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 173,718 178,172 96,031 98,127

The cumulative own credit net loss recognised is £179m (2016: £239m loss).

18 Fair value of financial instruments

Accounting for financial assets and liabilities – fair values
The Group applies IAS 39. All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date of initial recognition (including transaction 
costs, other than financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss) and, depending on the classification of the asset or liability, may 
continue to be held at fair value either through profit or loss or other comprehensive income. The fair value of a financial instrument is the price 
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement 
date.

Wherever possible, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument. For many of the Group's financial assets 
and liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not available and valuation models are used to estimate fair value. The models calculate 
the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value. These models use  
as their basis independently sourced market inputs including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option 
volatilities and currency rates.

For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads derived from 
observable market data such as in primary issuance and redemption activity for structured notes. 

On initial recognition, it is presumed that the transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active 
market to the contrary. The best evidence of an instrument's fair value on initial recognition is typically the transaction price. However, if fair 
value can be evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, or is based on a valuation 
technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets, then the instrument should be recognised at the fair value derived from 
such observable market data.

For valuations that have made use of unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction price  
(Day One profit) is recognised in profit or loss either: on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction; or over the period until all  
model inputs will become observable where appropriate; or released in full when previously unobservable inputs become observable.

262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may vary from product to product and change over time. Factors 
include the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, 
the maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction (bespoke or generic). To the extent that valuation is based on models or 
inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more subjective, dependent on the significance of the 
unobservable input to the overall valuation. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by 
reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical techniques.

The sensitivity of valuations used in the financial statements to possible changes in significant unobservable inputs is shown on page 270.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The valuation of financial instruments often involves a significant degree of judgement and complexity, in particular where valuation models 
make use of unobservable inputs (‘Level 3' assets and liabilities). This note provides information on these instruments, including the related 
unrealised gains and losses recognised in the period, a description of significant valuation techniques and unobservable inputs, and  
a sensitivity analysis.

Valuation
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires an entity to classify its assets and liabilities according to a hierarchy that reflects the observability of 
significant market inputs. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.

Quoted market prices – Level 1
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. Such instruments are valued by reference to 
unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents 
actual and regularly occurring market transactions. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to 
provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.

Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2
Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable either directly or indirectly. Valuations based 
on observable inputs include assets and liabilities such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing techniques, and 
options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable.

Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs). A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if there is 
compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price. Unobservable input levels are generally determined via reference to 
observable inputs, historical observations or using other analytical techniques.

The following table shows the Group's assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value hierarchy) 
and balance sheet classification:

Assets and liabilities held at fair value

As at 31 December

2017 2016
Valuation technique using Valuation technique using

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

Trading portfolio assets 63,925 47,858 1,977 113,760 41,550 36,625 2,065 80,240
Financial assets designated at fair value 4,347 104,187 7,747 116,281 4,031 64,630 9,947 78,608
Derivative financial assets 3,786 228,549 5,334 237,669 5,261 332,819 8,546 346,626
Available for sale investments 22,841 30,571 395 53,807 21,218 36,551 372 58,141
Investment property – – 116 116 – – 81 81
Assets included in disposal groups classified 
as held for salea – – 29 29 6,754 8,511 6,009 21,274
Total assets 94,899 411,165 15,598 521,662 78,814 479,136 27,020 584,970

Trading portfolio liabilities (20,905) (16,442) (4) (37,351) (20,205) (14,475) (7) (34,687)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value – (173,238) (480) (173,718) (70) (95,121) (840) (96,031)
Derivative financial liabilities (3,631) (229,517) (5,197) (238,345) (5,051) (328,265) (7,171) (340,487)
Liabilities included in disposal groups 
classified as held for salea – – – – (397) (5,224) (6,201) (11,822)
Total liabilities (24,536) (419,197) (5,681) (449,414) (25,723) (443,085) (14,219) (483,027)

Note 
a Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table.
 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 263

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Group's assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value hierarchy) 
and product type:

Assets and liabilities held at fair value by product type
Assets

Valuation technique using
Liabilities

Valuation technique using
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Interest rate derivatives – 150,325 2,718 – (143,890) (2,867)
Foreign exchange derivatives – 54,783 160 – (53,346) (124)
Credit derivatives – 11,163 1,386 – (11,312) (240)
Equity derivatives 3,786 9,848 1,064 (3,631) (18,527) (1,961)
Commodity derivatives – 2,430 6 – (2,442) (5)
Government and government sponsored debt 34,783 49,853 49 (13,079) (13,116) –
Corporate debt – 15,098 871 – (3,580) (4)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments – 1,491 – – (7,377) (250)
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements – 100,038 – – (126,691) –
Non-asset backed loans – 5,710 6,657 – – –
Asset backed securities – 1,837 626 – (221) –
Issued debt – – – – (38,176) (214)
Equity cash products 56,322 7,690 112 (7,826) (388) –
Private equity investments 8 1 817 – – (16)
Assets and liabilities held for sale – – 29 – – –
Othera – 898 1,103 – (131) –
Total 94,899 411,165 15,598 (24,536) (419,197) (5,681)

As at 31 December 2016
Interest rate derivatives – 222,892 5,759 – (215,213) (4,860)
Foreign exchange derivatives – 79,612 132 – (78,263) (51)
Credit derivatives – 14,662 1,611 – (14,844) (241)
Equity derivatives 4,210 11,842 1,037 (4,058) (15,808) (2,007)
Commodity derivatives 1,052 3,809 8 (991) (4,138) (13)
Government and government sponsored debt 31,203 49,834 3 (12,761) (11,454) –
Corporate debt 46 11,921 969 (27) (1,907) (5)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments – 994 – – (6,936) (319)
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements – 63,162 – – (55,710) –
Non-asset backed loans – 2,888 8,767 – – –
Asset backed securities – 1,956 515 – (256) –
Issued debt – – – – (31,973) (298)
Equity cash products 35,399 6,478 150 (7,416) (934) (2)
Private equity investments 23 110 856 – (18) (12)
Assets and liabilities held for sale 6,754 8,511 6,009 (397) (5,224) (6,201)
Othera 127 465 1,204 (73) (407) (210)
Total 78,814 479,136 27,020 (25,723) (443,085) (14,219)

Note 
a Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

Valuation techniques and sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative 
valuations. The sensitivity methodologies applied take account of the nature of the valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and 
reliability of observable proxy and historical data and the impact of using alternative models. 

Sensitivities are dynamically calculated on a monthly basis. The calculation is based on range or spread data of a reliable reference source or a 
scenario based on relevant market analysis alongside the impact of using alternative models. Sensitivities are calculated without reflecting the 
impact of any diversification in the portfolio. 

The valuation techniques used for the material products within Levels 2 and 3, and observability and sensitivity analysis for products within  
Level 3, are described below.

Interest rate derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to interest rates or inflation indices. The category includes futures, interest rate and inflation swaps, swaptions, 
caps, floors, inflation options, balance guaranteed swaps and other exotic interest rate derivatives.

Valuation: Interest rate and inflation derivatives are generally valued using curves of forward rates constructed from market data to project and 
discount the expected future cash flows of trades. Instruments with optionality are valued using volatilities implied from market inputs, and use 
industry standard or bespoke models depending on the product type. 

264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Observability: In general, inputs are considered observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each input and underlying. 
Unobservable inputs are generally set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to unobservable valuation inputs is based on the dispersion of consensus data services where available,  
or alternatively it is based on stress scenarios or historic data.

Foreign exchange derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to the foreign exchange (FX) market. The category includes FX forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options.  
The majority are traded as over the counter (OTC) derivatives.

Valuation: FX derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models depending on the product type. Valuation inputs include  
FX rates, interest rates, FX volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and others as appropriate. 

Observability: FX correlations, forwards and volatilities are generally observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each 
input and underlying. Unobservable inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via 
another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is primarily based on the dispersion of consensus data services. 

Credit derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity, index or basket of referenced entities or a pool of referenced assets  
(e.g. a securitised product). The category includes single name and index credit default swaps (CDS), asset backed CDS and synthetic 
collateralised debt obligations (CDOs).

Valuation: CDS are valued on industry standard models using curves of credit spreads as the principal input. Credit spreads are observed directly 
from broker data, third-party vendors or priced to proxies. Synthetic CDOs are valued using a model that incorporates credit spreads, recovery 
rates, correlations and interest rates, and is calibrated to the index tranche market.

Observability: CDS contracts referencing entities that are actively traded are generally considered observable. Other valuation inputs are 
considered observable if products with significant sensitivity to the inputs are actively traded in a liquid market. Unobservable valuation inputs  
are generally determined with reference to recent transactions or inferred from observable trades of the same issuer or similar entities.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to unobservable CDS contracts is determined by applying a shift to credit spread curves based on the average range 
of pricing observed in the market for similar CDS. Sensitivity to unobservable synthetic CDOs is calculated using correlation levels derived from the 
range of contributors to a consensus bespoke service.

Equity derivatives
Description: Exchange traded or OTC derivatives linked to equity indices and single names. The category includes vanilla and exotic equity products.

Valuation: Equity derivatives are valued using industry standard models. Valuation inputs include stock prices, dividends, volatilities, interest rates, 
equity repurchase curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations.

Observability: In general, valuation inputs are observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each input and underlying. 
Unobservable inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally estimated using the dispersion of consensus data services. 

Commodity derivatives
Description: Exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on underlying commodities such as metals, crude oil and refined products, agricultural, 
power and natural gas. 

Valuation: Commodity swaps and options are valued using models incorporating discounting of cash flows and other industry standard modelling 
techniques. Valuation inputs include forward curves, volatilities implied from market observable inputs and correlations. 

Observability: Commodity correlations, forwards and volatilities are generally observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately 
for each input and underlying. Unobservable inputs are set with reference to similar observable products, or by applying extrapolation techniques 
to observable inputs.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is determined primarily by measuring historical variability over a period of years. Where historical data is unavailable 
or uncertainty is due to volumetric risk, sensitivity is measured by applying appropriate stress scenarios or using proxy bid-offer spread levels.

Complex derivative instruments
Valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to complex derivative instruments, for the purpose of determining the amount of 
collateral to be posted, often differ, sometimes significantly, from Barclays' own estimates. In almost all cases, Barclays has been able to 
successfully resolve such differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases, by 
entering into compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of collateral calls, Barclays will often be engaged in discussion with 
one or more counterparties in respect of such differences at any given time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes 
are considered, like any other third-party valuation, when determining Barclays' fair value estimates.

Government and government sponsored debt
Description: Government bonds, supra sovereign bonds and agency bonds. 

Valuation: Liquid bonds that are actively traded through an exchange or clearing house are marked to the levels observed in these markets. Other 
actively traded bonds are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing sources.

Observability: Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Unobservable bonds prices are generally determined by reference to 
bond yields for actively traded bonds from the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally determined by using a range of observable alternative prices.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 265

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Corporate debt
Description: Primarily corporate bonds. 

Valuation: Corporate bonds are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing 
sources. 

Observability: Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Unobservable bonds prices are generally determined by reference  
to bond yields or CDS spreads for actively traded instruments issued by or referencing the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally determined by applying a shift to bond yields using the average ranges of external levels observed  
in the market for similar bonds.

Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments
Description: Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments.

Valuation: Instruments are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services.

Observability: Prices for actively traded instruments are considered observable. Unobservable instrument prices are generally determined by 
reference to bond yields or CDS spreads for actively traded instruments issued by or referencing the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally calculated by using a range of observable alternative prices. 

Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements
Description: Includes securities purchased under resale agreements, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and other similar secured 
lending agreements. The agreements are primarily short-term in nature.

Valuation: Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are generally valued by discounting the expected future cash flows using industry 
standard models that incorporate market interest rates and repurchase rates, based on the specific details of the transaction.

Observability: Inputs are deemed observable up to liquid maturities, and are determined based on the specific features of the transaction. 
Unobservable inputs are generally set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally estimated using the dispersion of consensus data services, stress scenarios or historic data. In general, 
the sensitivity of unobservable inputs is not significant to the overall valuation given the predominantly short-term nature of the agreements.

Non-asset backed loans
Description: Largely made up of fixed rate loans.

Valuation: Fixed rate loans are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows based on interest rates and loan spreads. 

Observability: Within this loan population, the loan spread is generally unobservable. Unobservable loan spreads are determined by incorporating 
funding costs, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, issuer credit quality and other factors.

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of fixed rate loans is calculated by applying a shift to loan spreads.

Asset backed securities
Description: Securities that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets via securitisation. The category includes residential mortgage 
backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, CDOs, collateralised loan obligations (CLOs) and other asset backed securities.

Valuation: Where available, valuations are based on observable market prices sourced from broker quotes and inter-dealer prices. Otherwise, 
valuations are determined using industry standard discounted cash flow analysis that calculates the fair value based on valuation inputs such as 
constant default rate, conditional prepayment rate, loss given default and yield. These inputs are determined by reference to a number of sources 
including proxying to observed transactions, market indices or market research, and by assessing underlying collateral performance. 

Proxying to observed transactions, indices or research requires an assessment and comparison of the relevant securities' underlying attributes 
including collateral, tranche, vintage, underlying asset composition (historical losses, borrower characteristics and loan attributes such as loan  
to value ratio and geographic concentration) and credit ratings (original and current).

Observability: Where an asset backed product does not have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a discounted cash 
flow analysis, the instrument is considered unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity analysis for asset backed products is based on externally sourced pricing dispersion or by stressing the inputs  
of discount cash flow analysis.

Issued debt
Description: Debt notes issued by Barclays.

Valuation: Issued debt is valued using discounted cash flow techniques and industry standard models incorporating various inputs observed  
for each instrument.

Observability: Barclays issued notes are generally observable. Structured notes are debt instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where 
either an input to the embedded derivative or the debt instrument is deemed unobservable and significant to the overall valuation of the note,  
the structured note is classified as Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to the unobservable input in the embedded derivative is calculated in line with the method used for the derivative 
instrument concerned.

266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Equity cash products
Description: Includes listed equities, Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) and preference shares.

Valuation: Valuation of equity cash products is primarily determined through market observable prices.

Observability: Prices for actively traded equity cash products are considered observable. Unobservable equity prices are generally determined  
by reference to actively traded instruments that are similar in nature, or inferred via another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally calculated based on applying a shift to the valuation of the underlying asset.

Private equity investments
Description: Includes private equity holdings and principal investments. 

Valuation: Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the ‘International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines' 
which require the use of a number of individual pricing benchmarks, such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar entities, 
discounted cash flow analysis and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed companies. While the valuation of unquoted equity 
instruments is subjective by nature, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market participants and have been consistently 
applied over time.

Observability: Inputs are considered observable if there is active trading in a liquid market of products with significant sensitivity to the inputs. 
Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative companies, marketability discounts and discount rates.

Level 3 sensitivity: Private equity valuation models are each sensitive to a number of key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, 
comparator multiples, marketability discounts and discount rates. Valuation sensitivity is generally estimated by shifting assumptions to 
reasonable alternative levels.

Assets and liabilities held for sale
Description: Assets and liabilities held for sale consist of disposal groups Barclays intend to sell.

Valuation: Assets and liabilities held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.

Level 3 sensitivity: The disposal groups that are measured at fair value less cost to sell are valued at the agreed price less costs to sell and are not 
expected to display significant sensitivity. The sensitivity of the assets and liabilities measured at carrying value is explained within the relevant 
product descriptions. 

Other
Description: Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and 
investment property.

Assets and liabilities reclassified between Level 1 and Level 2
During the period, there were transfers of £3,807m of government bond assets and £1,023m/£(950)m of commodity derivative assets and 
liabilities from Level 1 to Level 2 (2016: £2,340m of government bond assets transferred from Level 2 to Level 1) to reflect the market observability 
of these product types. These transfers are reflected as if they had taken place at the beginning of the year.

Level 3 movement analysis
The following table summarises the movements in the Level 3 balances during the period. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place 
at the beginning of the year.

Assets and liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are not included as these are 
measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.

Asset and liability transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 are primarily due to 1) an increase or decrease in observable market activity related  
to an input or 2) a change in the significance of the unobservable input, with assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 if an unobservable input  
is deemed significant. 

During the year:
■■ £721m of net interest rate derivatives were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 to reflect the market observability of the products
■■ £2,284m of non-asset backed loans were derecognised due to a substantial modification of terms on the ESHLA loans. The restructured loans 

are measured on an amortised cost basis.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 267

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2017
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settle-
ments

£m

Total gains and losses 
in the period 

recognised in the 
income statement

Total 
gains

 or losses
 recog-

nised
 in OCI

£m

Transfers As at 31 
December

 2017
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other
 income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 3 46  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 49 
Corporate debt 969 73 (47)  – (98) 21  –  – 6 (53) 871 
Non-asset backed loans 151 435 (187)  – (221) (8)  –  – 1 (5) 166 
Asset backed securities 515 195 (78)  – (9) 9  –  –  – (5) 627 
Equity cash products 77 24 (11)  –  – (19)  –  –  – (3) 68 
Other 350 2 (77)  – (97) 25 (1)  – 3 (9) 196 
Trading portfolio assets 2,065 775 (400)  – (425) 28 (1)  – 10 (75) 1,977 

Non-asset backed loans 8,616  –  –  – (2,284) 159  –  –  –  – 6,491 
Asset backed loans 201 27 (25)  – (3) (17) (3)  – 6 (31) 155 
Private equity investments 562 26 (127)  – (1) (1) 29  – 21 (11) 498 
Equity cash products  –  –  –  – (1) (7)  –  – 16  – 8 
Other 568 4,675 (4,646)  – (247) 41 197  – 16 (9) 595 
Financial assets designated  
at fair value 9,947 4,728 (4,798)  – (2,536) 175 223  – 59 (51) 7,747 

Equity cash products 73  –  –  –  –  – 1 2 5 (45) 36 
Private equity investments 294 15 (78)  –  –  – (5) 37 60 (4) 319 
Other 5 36  –  – (2)  –  – 1  –  – 40 
Available for sale investments 372 51 (78)  – (2)  – (4) 40 65 (49) 395 

Investment property 81 114 (69)  –  –  – (10)  – –  – 116 

Trading portfolio liabilities (7) (4) 1  –  – 2  –  – (1) 5 (4)

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (319)  – 69  –  –  – 9  – (104) 95 (250)
Issued debt (298)  – 84  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (214)
Other (223)  –  –  – 204  – (6)  –  – 9 (16)
Financial liabilities designated  
at fair value (840)  – 153  – 204  – 3  – (104) 104 (480)

Interest rate derivatives 899 58 (1)  – (208) (166)  –  – (11) (721) (150)
Foreign exchange derivatives 81  –  –  – (12) 27  –  – (13) (46) 37 
Credit derivatives 1,370 5 (2)  – (29) (128)  –  – (69) (1) 1,146 
Equity derivatives (970) (220) (14)  – 374 (43)  –  – (16) (7) (896)
Commodity derivatives (5)  –  –  –  – 4  –  – 1  –  – 
Net derivative financial 
instrumentsa 1,375 (157) (17)  – 125 (306)  –  – (108) (775) 137 
Assets and liabilities held for sale 574  – (574)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Total 13,567 5,507 (5,782)  – (2,634) (101) 211 40 (79) (841) 9,888 

Net assets held for sale measured 
at fair value on non-recurring basis 29 
Total 13,567 5,507 (5,782)  – (2,634) (101) 211 40 (79) (841) 9,917 

Note
a The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis. On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are £5,334m (2016: £8,546m) and derivative financial liabilities are 

£5,197m (2016: £7,171m).
 

268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2016
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settle-
ments

£m

Total gains and losses 
in the period  

recognised in the 
income statement

Total 
gains

 or losses
 recog-

nised
 in OCI

£m

Transfers As at 31 
December

 2016
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other
 income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 320  – (317)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 3 
Corporate debt 2,843 38 (48)  – (5) 206  –  – 32 (2,097) 969 
Non-asset backed loans 507 173 (498)  – (4) (38)  –  – 18 (7) 151 
Asset backed securities 743 129 (295)  – (171) 111  –  – 1 (3) 515 
Equity cash products 121 4 (4)  –  – (15)  –  –  –  (29) 77 
Other 374 55 (89)  – (1) 30  –  – 1 (20) 350 
Trading portfolio assets 4,908 399 (1,251)  – (181) 294  –  – 52 (2,156) 2,065 

Non-asset backed loans 15,963  –  –  – (8,602) 1,155 100  –  –  – 8,616 
Asset backed loans 256 48 (225)  – (20) 30  –  – 112  – 201 
Private equity investments 457 38 (51)  – (3) 16 120  – 6 (21) 562 
Equity cash products 26  – (26)  –  –  – – –  – – – 
Other 595 2,658 (2,729)  – (33) 37 85  – 41 (86) 568 
Financial assets designated  
at fair value 17,297 2,744 (3,031)  – (8,658) 1,238 305  – 159 (107) 9,947 

Equity cash products 24 52 (7)  –  –  –  3 2  – (1) 73
Private equity investments 877 15 (254) – (407) – – 63 – – 294
Other 20 1 (7)  – (16)  – 1 5 1  – 5 
Available for sale investments 921 68 (268)  – (423)  – 4 70 1 (1) 372 

Investment property 82  – (3)  –  –  – 2  –  –  – 81 

Trading portfolio liabilities – – (9) – – (1) – – – 3 (7)

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (272) – – (19) 48 2 (7) – (301) 230 (319)
Issued debt (538) – – – 231 – 9 – – – (298)
Other (244) – – – 83 (48) (2) – (50) 38 (223)
Financial liabilities designated  
at fair value (1,054) – – (19) 362 (46) – – (351) 268 (840)

Interest rate derivatives 418 45 3 – (6) 228 – – 294 (83) 899
Foreign exchange derivatives (104) – 30 2 40 6 – – 55 52 81
Credit derivatives 1,685 2 (306) – (119) 111 – – 3 (6) 1,370
Equity derivatives (857) 196 7 (83) (34) (98) – – (15) (86) (970)
Commodity derivatives (506) – – – 91 (3) – – – 413 (5)
Net derivative financial 
instrumentsa 636 243 (266) (81) (28) 244 – – 337 290 1,375
Assets and liabilities held for sale 424 126 (166) (116) 85 – 172 – – 49 574
Total 23,214 3,580 (4,994) (216) (8,843) 1,729 483 70 198 (1,654) 13,567

Net liabilities held for sale measured 
at fair value on non-recurring basis (766)
Total 23,214 3,580 (4,994) (216) (8,843) 1,729 483 70 198 (1,654) 12,801

Note
a The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis. On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are £5,334m (2016: £8,546m) and derivative financial liabilities are 

£5,197m (2016: £7,171m).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 269

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Unrealised gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities
The following table discloses the unrealised gains and losses recognised in the year arising on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities held  
at year end:

Unrealised gains and losses recognised during the period on Level 3 assets and liabilities held at year end

As at 31 December

2017 2016
Income statement Other 

compre-
hensive
income

£m
Total

£m

Income statement Other 
compre-
hensive 
income

£m
Totala

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m
Trading portfolio assets (34) – – (34) 243 – – 243
Financial assets designated at fair value 147 200 – 347 227 271 – 498
Available for sale investments – (4) 29 25 – 6 70 76
Investment property – (10) – (10) – 2 – 2
Trading portfolio liabilities 3 – – 3 (1) – – (1)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 58 10 – 68 96 (6) – 90
Net derivative financial instruments (301) – – (301) 175 – – 175
Assets and liabilities held for sale – – – – – 128 – 128
Total (127) 196 29 98 740 401 70 1,211

Note
a The unrealised gain of £1,211m on Level 3 assets in 2016 is largely offset by losses on related Level 2 and Level 1 portfolio hedges.
 

Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs

As at 31 December

2017 2016
Favourable changes Unfavourable changes Favourable changes Unfavourable changes
Income

 statement
£m

Equity
£m

Income 
statement

£m
Equity

£m

Income
 statement

£m
Equity

£m

Income
 statement

£m
Equity

£m
Interest rate derivatives 114 – (138) – 209 – (249) –
Foreign exchange derivatives 6 – (6) – 15 – (15) –
Credit derivatives 106 – (79) – 127 – (133) –
Equity derivatives 99 – (99) – 163 – (164) –
Commodity derivatives 3 – (3) – 5 – (5) –
Corporate debt 4 – (3) – 7 – (2) –
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and 
other money market instruments – – – – – – (1) –
Non-asset backed loans 243 – (468) – 462 – (597) –
Asset backed securities 1 – – – 1 – (1) –
Issued debt – – – – – – – –
Equity cash products 12 24 (8) (24) 12 26 (11) (26)
Private equity investments 133 13 (138) (13) 104 18 (104) (21)
Assets and liabilities held for sale – – – – 3 – (3) –
Othera 5 – (5) – 155 – (113) –
Total 726 37 (947) (37) 1,263 44 (1,398) (47)

Note
a Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

The effect of stressing unobservable inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives, alongside considering the impact of using alternative 
models, would be to increase fair values by up to £763m (2016: £1,307m) or to decrease fair values by up to £984m (2016: £1,445m) with 
substantially all the potential effect impacting profit and loss rather than reserves. 

270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Significant unobservable inputs
The following table discloses the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities recognised at fair value and 
classified as Level 3 along with the range of values used for those significant unobservable inputs:

Valuation
technique(s)

Significant 
unobservable inputs

2017
Range

2016
Range

Min Max Min Max Unitsa

Derivative financial 
instrumentsb

Interest rate Discounted cash flows Inflation forwards 1 3 (1) 8 %
derivatives Credit spread 45 1,320 25 1,669 bps

Comparable pricing Price – 100 – 100 points
Option model Inflation volatility 35 201 35 207 bps vol

IR – IR correlation (24) 99 (26) 98 %
FX – IR correlation (30) 24 (15) 81 %

Interest rate volatility 5 353 9 295 bps vol
Credit derivatives Discounted cash flows Credit spread 122 190 133 274 bps
Equity derivatives Option model Equity volatility 3 92 1 150 %

Equity – equity correlation (100) 100 (90) 100 %
Equity – FX correlation (100) 45 (80) 25 %

Discounted cash flow Discounted margin (105) 301 (130) 331 bps
Non-derivative financial 
instruments
Non-asset backed loans Discounted cash flows Loan spread 30 596 30 1,495 bps

Price – 50 – 99 points
Comparable pricing Price – 100 – 100 points

Corporate debt Comparable pricing Price – 100 – 121 points
Discounted cash flows Credit spread 140 190 145 190 bps

Asset backed securities Comparable pricing Price – 99 – 270 points
Private equity investments EBITDA multiple EBITDA multiple 8 13 5 17 multiple

Notes
a The units used to disclose ranges for significant unobservable inputs are percentages, points and basis points. Points are a percentage of par; for example, 100 points equals 

100% of par. A basis point equals 1/100th of 1%; for example, 150 bps equals 1.5%.
b Certain derivative instruments are classified as Level 3 due to a significant unobservable credit spread input into the calculation of the Credit Valuation Adjustment for the 

instruments. The range of significant unobservable credit spreads is between 31-596bps (2016: 65-874bps).

The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the table above, and the sensitivity of fair value measurement of 
the instruments categorised as Level 3 assets or liabilities to increases in significant unobservable inputs. Where sensitivities are described, the 
inverse relationship will also generally apply.

Where reliable interrelationships can be identified between significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement, a description of those 
interrelationships is included below.

Forwards
A price or rate that is applicable to a financial transaction that will take place in the future.

In general, a significant increase in a forward in isolation will result in a fair value increase for the contracted receiver of the underlying  
(currency, bond, commodity, etc.), but the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.

Credit spread
Credit spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Credit spreads reflect 
the additional yield that a market participant demands for taking on exposure to the credit risk of an instrument and form part of the yield used in 
a discounted cash flow calculation.

In general, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation will result in a movement in a fair value decrease for a cash asset.

For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the 
specific terms of the instrument.

Volatility
Volatility is a measure of the variability or uncertainty in return for a given derivative underlying. It is an estimate of how much a particular 
underlying instrument input or index will change in value over time. In general, volatilities are implied from observed option prices. For 
unobservable options the implied volatility may reflect additional assumptions about the nature of the underlying risk, and the strike/maturity 
profile of a specific contract.

In general, a significant increase in volatility in isolation will result in a fair value increase for the holder of a simple option, but the sensitivity  
is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument. 

There may be interrelationships between unobservable volatilities and other unobservable inputs (e.g. when equity prices fall, implied equity 
volatilities generally rise) but these are generally specific to individual markets and may vary over time.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 271

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Correlation
Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables. Correlation can be a significant input into valuation of 
derivative contracts with more than one underlying instrument. Credit correlation generally refers to the correlation between default processes  
for the separate names that make up the reference pool of a CDO structure.

A significant increase in correlation in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the specific terms of the instrument.

Comparable price
Comparable instrument prices are used in valuation by calculating an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a 
comparable observable instrument, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to account for relevant differences such as maturity or credit quality. 
Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable and unobservable instruments in order to establish a value.

In general, a significant increase in comparable price in isolation will result in an increase in the price of the unobservable instrument.  
For derivatives, a change in the comparable price in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the specific terms  
of the instrument.

Loan spread
Loan spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Loan spreads  
typically reflect credit quality, the level of comparable assets such as gilts and other factors, and form part of the yield used in a discounted  
cash flow calculation.

The ESHLA portfolio primarily consists of long-dated fixed rate loans extended to counterparties in the UK Education, Social Housing and Local 
Authority sectors. The loans are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to their illiquid nature and the significance of unobservable 
loan spreads to the valuation. Valuation uncertainty arises from the long-dated nature of the portfolio, the lack of secondary market in the loans 
and the lack of observable loan spreads. The majority of ESHLA loans are to borrowers in heavily regulated sectors that are considered extremely 
low credit risk, and have a history of zero defaults since inception. While the overall loan spread range is from 30bps to 596bps (2016: 30bps to 
1,495bps), the vast majority of spreads are concentrated towards the bottom end of this range, with 99% of the loan notional being valued with 
spreads less than 200bps consistently for both years.

In general, a significant increase in loan spreads in isolation will result in a fair value decrease for a loan.

Loss given default
Loss given default represents the expected loss upon liquidation of the collateral as a percentage of the balance outstanding.

In general, a significant increase in the loss given default in isolation will translate to lower recovery and lower projected cash flows to pay to the 
securitisation, resulting in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of the securitised product.

EBITDA multiple
EBITDA multiple is the ratio of the valuation of the investment to the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. 

In general, a significant increase in the multiple will result in a fair value increase for an investment.

Fair value adjustments
Key balance sheet valuation adjustments are quantified below:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads (391) (475)
Uncollateralised derivative funding (45) (82)
Derivative credit valuation adjustments (103) (237)
Derivative debit valuation adjustments 131 242

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads
The Group uses mid-market pricing where it is a market maker and has the ability to transact at, or better than, mid price (which is the case for 
certain equity, bond and vanilla derivative markets). For other financial assets and liabilities, bid-offer adjustments are recorded to reflect the exit 
level for the expected close out strategy. The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves calculating 
the net risk exposure by offsetting long and short positions by strike and term in accordance with the risk management and hedging strategy.

Bid-offer levels are generally derived from market quotes such as broker data. Less liquid instruments may not have a directly observable bid-offer 
level. In such instances, an exit price adjustment may be derived from an observable bid-offer level for a comparable liquid instrument, or 
determined by calibrating to derivative prices, or by scenario or historical analysis.

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads have reduced by £84m to £391m as a result of risk reduction and spread tightening.

Discounting approaches for derivative instruments 
Collateralised
In line with market practice, the methodology for discounting collateralised derivatives takes into account the nature and currency of the collateral 
that can be posted within the relevant credit support annex (CSA). The CSA aware discounting approach recognises the ‘cheapest to deliver' 
option that reflects the ability of the party posting collateral to change the currency of the collateral.

272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Uncollateralised
A fair value adjustment of £45m is applied to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised  
and partially collateralised derivative portfolios and collateralised derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not allow the rehypothecation 
of collateral received. This adjustment is referred to as the Funding Fair Value Adjustment (FFVA). FFVA has decreased by £37m to £45m mainly  
as a result of material trade unwinds.

FFVA is determined by calculating the net expected exposure at a counterparty level and applying a funding rate to the exposure that reflects the 
market cost of funding. Barclays' internal Treasury rates are used as an input to the calculation. The approach takes into account the probability of 
default of each counterparty, as well as any mandatory break clauses.

FFVA incorporates a scaling factor which is an estimate of the extent to which the cost of funding is incorporated into observed traded levels.  
On calibrating the scaling factor, it is with the assumption that Credit Valuation Adjustments (CVA) and Debit Valuation Adjustments (DVA) are 
retained as valuation components incorporated into such levels. The effect of incorporating this scaling factor at 31 December 2017 was to reduce 
FFVA by £138m (2016: £246m).

The approach outlined above has been in use since 2012 with no significant changes.

Barclays continues to monitor market practices and activity to ensure the approach to uncollateralised derivative valuation remains appropriate. 
The above approach has been in use since 2012 with no significant changes.

Derivative credit and debit valuation adjustments
CVA and DVA are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit risk and Barclays' own credit 
quality respectively. These adjustments are calculated for uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives across all asset classes. CVA and 
DVA are calculated using estimates of exposure at default, probability of default and recovery rates, at a counterparty level. Counterparties include 
(but are not limited to) corporates, sovereigns and sovereign agencies and supranationals.

Exposure at default is generally estimated through the simulation of underlying risk factors through approximating with a more vanilla structure, 
or by using current or scenario-based mark to market as an estimate of future exposure. 

Probability of default and recovery rate information is generally sourced from the CDS markets. Where this information is not available, or 
considered unreliable, alternative approaches are taken based on mapping internal counterparty ratings onto historical or market-based default 
and recovery information. In particular, this applies to sovereign related names where the effect of using the recovery assumptions implied in CDS 
levels would imply a £50m (2016: £95m) increase in CVA.

Correlation between counterparty credit and underlying derivative risk factors, termed ‘wrong-way,' or ‘right-way' risk, is not systematically 
incorporated into the CVA calculation but is adjusted where the underlying exposure is directly related to the counterparty. 

CVA decreased by £134m to £103m, primarily due to reductions in the average maturity of the portfolio driven by trade unwinds. DVA reduced  
by £111m to £131m, primarily as a result of Barclays' credit spreads tightening and trade unwinds.

Portfolio exemptions
The Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to measure the fair value of groups of financial assets and liabilities. 
Instruments are measured using the price that would be received to sell a net long position (i.e. an asset) for a particular risk exposure or to 
transfer a net short position (i.e. a liability) for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance sheet 
date under current market conditions. Accordingly, the Group measures the fair value of the group of financial assets and liabilities consistently 
with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.

Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs
For instruments where fair value cannot be evidenced by reference to observable market data, initial recognition occurs at the transaction price. 
This is achieved by recognising a reserve for the difference between unobservable fair value and transaction price.

For financial instruments measured at fair value on an ongoing basis the reserve was £109m (2016: £179m). During 2017 there were additions  
of £34m (2016: £29m) and amortisation and releases of £104m (2016: £37m).

Third party credit enhancements
Structured and brokered certificates of deposit issued by Barclays are insured up to $250,000 per depositor by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) in the US. The FDIC is funded by premiums that Barclays and other banks pay for deposit insurance coverage. The carrying 
value of these issued certificates of deposit that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option includes this third party credit enhancement. 
The on-balance sheet value of these brokered certificates of deposit amounted to £4,070m (2016: £3,905m).

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 273

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values for assets and liabilities not held at fair value
The following table summarises the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on the Group's balance sheet:

As at 31 December 

2017 2016
Carrying
 amount

£m
Fair value

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m

Carrying
 amount

£m
Fair value

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
Financial assets 
Held to maturity 5,109 5,285 5,285 – – 5,176 5,347 5,347 – –
Loans and advances to banks 35,663 35,660 3,701 31,959 – 43,251 43,228 7,256 34,987 985
Loans and advances to customers: 
– Home loans 147,002 145,262 – – 145,262 144,765 141,155 – – 141,155
–  Credit cards, unsecured and other 

retail lending 55,767 55,106 655 – 54,451 57,808 57,699 737 42 56,920
– Finance lease receivablesa 2,854 2,964 1,602 1,598
– Corporate loans 159,929 157,890 – 109,140 48,750 188,609 186,715 126,979 59,736
Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending 12,546 12,546 – 12,546 – 13,454 13,454 – 13,454 –
Assets included in disposal groups 
classified as held for saleb 1,164 1,195 – – 1,195 43,593 44,838 1,070 4,614 39,154
 
Financial liabilities 
Deposits from banks (37,723) (37,729) (4,375) (33,354) – (48,214) (48,212) (5,256) (42,895) (61)
Customer accounts: 
– Current and demand accounts (145,950) (145,927) (145,927) – – (138,204) (138,197) (127,258) (10,921) (18)
– Savings accounts (134,339) (134,369) (134,369) – – (133,344) (133,370) (120,471) (12,891) (8)
– Other time deposits (148,832) (148,897) (62,750) (80,296) (5,851) (151,630) (151,632) (48,853) (96,240) (6,539)
Debt securities in issue (73,314) (74,752) – (72,431) (2,321) (75,932) (76,971) (196) (74,712) (2,063)
Repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured borrowing (40,338) (40,338) – (40,338) – (19,760) (19,760) – (19,760) –
Subordinated liabilities (23,826) (25,084) – (25,084) – (23,383) (24,547) – (24,547) –
Liabilities included in disposal groups 
classified as held for saleb – – – – – (51,775) (51,788) (22,264) (28,998) (526)

Notes 
a The fair value hierarchy for finance lease receivables is not required as part of the standard.
b Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table. 

The fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may not be appropriate to directly compare 
this fair value information to independent market sources or other financial institutions. Different valuation methodologies and assumptions can 
have a significant impact on fair values which are based on unobservable inputs.

Financial assets
The carrying value of financial assets held at amortised cost is determined in accordance with the relevant accounting policy in Note 20.

Loans and advances to banks
The fair value of loans and advances, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that reflects  
the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality. Where market data or credit information on the underlying borrowers is 
unavailable, a number of proxy/extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate discount rates.

There is minimal difference between the fair value and carrying amount due to the short-term nature of the lending, i.e. predominantly overnight 
deposit, and the high credit quality of counterparties.

Loans and advances to customers
The fair value of loans and advances to customers, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way 
that reflects the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality.

For retail lending, i.e. home loans and credit cards, tailored discounted cash flow models are predominantly used to estimate the fair value  
of different product types. For example, for home loans different models are used to estimate fair values of tracker, offset and fixed rate  
mortgage products. 

Key inputs to these models are the differentials between historic and current product margins and estimated prepayment rates.

The discount of fair value to carrying amount for home loans has reduced to 1.2% (2016: 2.5%) due to changes in product mix across the loan 
portfolio and movements in product margins.

The fair value of corporate loans is calculated by the use of discounted cash flow techniques where the gross loan values are discounted at a rate 
of difference between contractual margins and hurdle rates or spreads where Barclays charges a margin over LIBOR depending on credit quality 
and loss given default and years to maturity. The discount between the carrying and fair value has increased to 1.3% (2016: 1.0%).

274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Reverse repurchase agreements
The fair value of reverse repurchase agreements approximates carrying amount as these balances are generally short dated and fully collateralised.

Financial liabilities
The carrying value of financial liabilities held at amortised cost is determined in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 22.

Deposits from banks and customer accounts
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that 
reprice frequently, such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities.

The fair value for deposits with longer-term maturities mainly time deposits, are estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market 
rates or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities. Consequently, the fair value discount is minimal. There were transfers of 
£34,163m of deposits from banks and customers from Level 2 to Level 1 to reflect the market observability of these product types.

Debt securities in issue
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where the instruments are short dated, carrying amount 
approximates fair value. The fair value difference has increased to 2.0% (2016: 1.4%).

Repurchase agreements
The fair value of repurchase agreements approximates carrying amounts as these balances are generally short dated.

Subordinated liabilities
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issuer concerned or 
issuers with similar terms and conditions.

19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis  
on the balance sheet only if there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis,  
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on:
■■ all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet
■■ all derivative financial instruments and reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing 

agreements that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements, but do not qualify for balance sheet netting.

The table identifies the amounts that have been offset in the balance sheet and also those amounts that are covered by enforceable netting 
arrangements (offsetting arrangements and financial collateral) but do not qualify for netting under the requirements of IAS 32 described above.

The ‘Net amounts' presented on the next page are not intended to represent the Group's actual exposure to credit risk, as a variety of credit 
mitigation strategies are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 275

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities continued
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts not

 subject to
 enforceable

 netting
 arrange-

mentsc
£m

Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offseta

As at 31 December 2017

Gross 
amounts

£m

Amounts
 offsetb

£m

Net amounts
 reported on
 the balance

 sheet
£m

Financial
 instruments

£m

Financial
 collateral

£m

Net 
amount

£m

Balance 
sheet totald

£m
Derivative financial assets 256,881 (21,638) 235,243 (184,265) (39,262) 11,716 2,426 237,669
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lendinge 326,340 (223,495) 102,845 – (102,380) 465 9,741 112,586
Total assets 583,221 (245,133) 338,088 (184,265) (141,642) 12,181 12,167 350,255
Derivative financial liabilities (253,030) 21,065 (231,965) 184,265 36,444 (11,256) (6,380) (238,345)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowinge (374,616) 223,495 (151,121) – 151,073 (48) (15,908) (167,029)
Total liabilities (627,646) 244,560 (383,086) 184,265 187,517 (11,304) (22,288) (405,374)

As at 31 December 2016
Derivative financial assets 353,078 (11,934) 341,144 (273,602) (49,923) 17,619 5,482 346,626
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 257,430 (187,262) 70,168 – (69,932) 236 6,448 76,616
Total assets 610,508 (199,196) 411,312 (273,602) (119,855) 17,855 11,930 423,242
Derivative financial liabilities (345,752) 10,962 (334,790) 273,602 47,383 (13,805) (5,697) (340,487)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowinge (257,854) 187,262 (70,592) – 68,897 (1,695) (4,878) (75,470)
Total liabilities (603,606) 198,224 (405,382) 273,602 116,280 (15,500) (10,575) (415,957)

Notes
a Financial collateral of £39,262m (2016: £49,923m) was received in respect of derivative assets, including £33,092m (2016: £41,641m) of cash collateral and £6,170m  

(2016: £8,282m) of non-cash collateral. Financial collateral of £36,444m (2016: £47,383m) was placed in respect of derivative liabilities, including £32,575m (2016: £43,763m) of 
cash collateral and £3,869m (2016: £3,620m) of non-cash collateral. The collateral amounts are limited to net balance sheet exposure so as to not include over-collateralisation. 
Of the £33,092m (2016: £41,641m) cash collateral held, £19,351m (2016: £26,834m) was included in deposits from banks and £13,741m (2016: £14,807m), was included in 
customer accounts. Of the £32,575m (2016: £43,763m) cash collateral placed, £14,493m (2016: £17,587m) was included in loans and advances to banks and £18,082m (2016: 
£26,176m) was included in loans and advances to customers.

b Amounts offset for derivative financial assets include cash collateral netted of £2,393m (2016: £972m). Amounts offset for derivative financial liabilities include cash collateral 
netted of £1,820m (2016: £nil). Settlements assets and liabilities have been offset amounting to £13,241m (2016: £10,486m). No other significant recognised financial assets  
and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet. Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for inclusion in the table are those shown above.

c This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
d The balance sheet total is the sum of ‘Net amounts reported on the balance sheet' that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and ‘Amounts not subject to enforceable 

netting arrangements'.
e Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements include instruments at amortised cost and instruments designated at fair value through profit and loss. Reverse repurchase 

agreements and other similar secured lending of £112,586m (2016: £76,616m) is split by fair value £100,040m (2016: £63,162m) and amortised cost £12,546m (2016: £13,454m). 
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of £167,029m (2016: £75,470m) is split by fair value £126,691m (2016: £55,710m) and amortised cost £40,338m 
(2016: £19,760m).

Derivative assets and liabilities
The ‘Financial instruments' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA 
Master Agreement or derivative exchange or clearing counterparty agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty 
can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other 
predetermined events occur.

Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained, typically daily or weekly, to cover the net exposure between counterparties  
by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing
The ‘Amounts offset' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as Global Master 
Repurchase Agreements and Global Master Securities Lending Agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty  
can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other 
predetermined events occur.

Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty 
default.

These offsetting and collateral arrangements and other credit risk mitigation strategies used by the Group are further explained in the Credit risk 
mitigation section on page 128.

276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on assets that are held at amortised cost arising from the Group's retail and wholesale lending 
including loans and advances, finance leases, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and similar secured lending. Details regarding 
the Group's liquidity and capital position can be found on pages 166 to 187.

20 Loans and advances to banks and customers

Accounting for financial instruments held at amortised cost
Loans and advances to customers and banks, customer accounts, debt securities and most financial liabilities, are held at amortised cost. 
That is, the initial fair value (which is normally the amount advanced or borrowed) is adjusted for repayments and the amortisation of coupon, 
fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability. Balances deferred on-balance sheet as effective interest rate 
adjustments are amortised to interest income over the life of the financial instrument to which they relate.

In accordance with IAS 39, where the Group no longer intends to trade in financial assets it may transfer them out of the held for trading 
classification and measure them at amortised cost if they meet the definition of a loan. The initial value used for the purposes of establishing 
amortised cost is fair value on the date of the transfer.

As at 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
Gross loans and advances to banks 35,663 43,251
Less: allowance for impairment – –
Loans and advances to banks 35,663 43,251

Gross loans and advances to customers 370,204 397,404
Less: allowance for impairment (4,652) (4,620)
Loans and advances to customers 365,552 392,784

21 Finance leases

Accounting for finance leases
The Group applies IAS 17 Leases in accounting for finance leases, both where it is the lessor or the lessee. A finance lease is a lease which 
confers substantially all the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. Where the Group is the lessor, the leased asset is not held on 
the balance sheet; instead a finance lease receivable is recognised representing the minimum lease payments receivable under the terms of the 
lease, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease. Where the Group is the lessee, the leased asset is recognised in property, plant and 
equipment and a finance lease liability is recognised, representing the minimum lease payments payable under the lease, discounted at the rate 
of interest implicit in the lease.

Interest income or expense is recognised in interest receivable or payable, allocated to accounting periods to reflect a constant periodic rate of 
return.

Finance lease receivables
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers. The Group specialises in the provision of leasing and other asset 
finance facilities across a broad range of asset types to business customers.

2017 2016

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m
Not more than one year 1,130 (91) 1,039 69 646 (37) 609 60
Over one year but not more than five years 1,750 (135) 1,615 156 986 (57) 929 132
Over five years 284 (32) 252 21 73 (4) 69 19
Total 3,164 (258) 2,906 246 1,705 (98) 1,607 211

Following a review in 2017, a portfolio of assets within loans and advances to customers has been identified as finance leases. This has resulted in 
an increase in the finance lease receivables balance of £1,537m in 2017 as reflected in the table above.

The impairment allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables amounted to £57m (2016: £6m).

Finance lease liabilities
The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases. Finance lease liabilities are included 
within Note 26.

As at 31 December 2017, the total future minimum payments under finance leases were £20m (2016: £15m). The carrying amount of assets held 
under finance leases was £9m (2016: £15m).

Financial instruments held at amortised cost
Notes to the financial statements

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 277

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Financial instruments held at amortised cost
Notes to the financial statements

22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing
Reverse repurchase agreements (and stock borrowing or similar transaction) are a form of secured lending whereby the Group provides a loan 
or cash collateral in exchange for the transfer of collateral, generally in the form of marketable securities subject to an agreement to transfer the 
securities back at a fixed price in the future. Repurchase agreements are where the Group obtains such loans or cash collateral, in exchange for 
the transfer of collateral.

Accounting for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing 
The Group purchases (a reverse repurchase agreement) or borrows securities subject to a commitment to resell or return them. The securities 
are not included in the balance sheet as the Group does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration paid (or cash collateral 
provided) is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss. 

The Group may also sell (a repurchase agreement) or lend securities subject to a commitment to repurchase or redeem them. The securities 
are retained on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration received (or cash 
collateral provided) is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss. 

As at 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
Assets
Banks 7,374 2,769
Customers 5,172 10,685
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised cost 12,546 13,454

Liabilities
Banks 30,105 12,820
Customers 10,233 6,940
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing at amortised cost 40,338 19,760

278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on the Group's non-current tangible and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, which 
provide long-term future economic benefits.

23 Property, plant and equipment

Accounting for property, plant and equipment
The Group applies IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Properties.

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and 
provisions for impairment, if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in the enhancement to the asset. 

Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful economic lives. Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant 
and equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances. The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating 
depreciation:

Annual rates in calculating depreciation Depreciation rate 
Freehold land 
Freehold buildings and long leasehold property (more than 50 years to run) 
Leasehold property over the remaining life of the lease (less than 50 years to run)
Costs of adaptation of freehold and leasehold property
Equipment installed in freehold and leasehold property
Computers and similar equipment
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment

Not depreciated
2-3.3%
Over the remaining life of the lease 
6-10%
6-10%
17-33%
9-20%

Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 17 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the 
remaining life of the lease.

Investment property
The Group initially recognises investment property at cost, and subsequently at fair value at each balance sheet date, reflecting market 
conditions at the reporting date. Gains and losses on remeasurement are included in the income statement.

Investment
property

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m

Leased
assets

£m
Total

£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2017 81 3,429 3,840 10 7,360
Additions 114 220 299 – 633
Disposals (69) (18) (1.082) (1) (1,170)
Change in fair value of investment properties (5) – – – (5)
Exchange and other movements (5) (138) (309) – (452)
As at 31 December 2017 116 3,493 2,748 9 6,366
Accumulated depreciation and impairment –
As at 1 January 2017 – (1,483) (3,043) (9) (4,535)
Depreciation charge – (171) (275) – (446)
Impairment (28) – – (28)
Disposals – – 972 – 972
Exchange and other movements – 14 229 – 243
As at 31 December 2017 – (1,668) (2,117) (9) (3,794)
Net book value 116 1,825 631 – 2,572
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 140 3,919 4,259 62 8,380
Additions – 167 370 – 537
Disposals (6) (761) (631) – (1,398)
Change in fair value of investment properties – – – – –
Exchange and other movementsa (53) 104 (158) (52) (159)
As at 31 December 2016 81 3,429 3,840 10 7,360
Accumulated depreciation and impairment –
As at 1 January 2016 – (1,697) (3,177) (38) (4,912)
Depreciation charge – (186) (327) – (513)
Disposals – 635 405 – 1,040
Exchange and other movementsa – (235) 56 29 (150)
As at 31 December 2016 – (1,483) (3,043) (9) (4,535)
Net book value 81 1,946 797 1 2,825

Notes
a  Includes property, plant and equipment relating to BAGL of £627m (cost of £1,066m less accumulated depreciation of £439m) which was reclassified to held for sale. 

Non-current assets and other investments
Notes to the financial statements

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 279

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Non-current assets and other investments
Notes to the financial statements

23 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property rentals of £2m (2016: £7m) and £8m (2016: £6m) have been included in net investment income and other income respectively. 

The fair value of investment property is determined by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as necessary for condition 
and location, or by reference to recent transactions updated to reflect current economic conditions. Discounted cash flow techniques may be 
employed to calculate fair value where there have been no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market rents and 
interest rates. Valuations are carried out by management with the support of appropriately qualified independent valuers. Refer to Note 18 for 
further details.

24 Goodwill and intangible assets

Accounting for goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value 
of the Group's share of the assets acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.

Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred. The test 
involves comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of the pre-tax cash flows, discounted at a rate of interest that reflects 
the inherent risks, of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the goodwill relates, or the CGU's fair value if this is higher. 

Intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.

Intangible assets are initially recognised when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be measured 
reliably and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic benefits 
attributable to the assets will flow from their use.

Intangible assets are stated at cost (which is, in the case of assets acquired in a business combination, the acquisition date fair value) less 
accumulated amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner that reflects the pattern 
to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally using the amortisation periods set out below:

Annual rates in calculating amortisation Amortisation period
Goodwill 
Internally generated softwarea
Other software
Customer lists
Licences and other

Not amortised
12 months to 6 years
12 months to 6 years
12 months to 25 years
12 months to 25 years

Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.

Note
a Exceptions to the above rate relate to useful lives of certain core banking platforms that are assessed individually and, if appropriate, amortised over longer periods ranging 

from 10 to 15 years.

Notes to the financial statements

280 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued

Goodwill
£m

Internally 
generated 

software
£m

Other 
software

£m

Customer 
lists
£m

Licences 
and other

£m
Total

£m
2017
Cost 
As at 1 January 2017 4,847 4,927 204 1,708 551 12,237
Additions and disposals – 662 16 (15) 13 676
Exchange and other movements (88) (88) 207 (146) (45) (160)
As at 31 December 2017 4,759 5,501 427 1,547 519 12,753
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2017 (930) (1,864) (143) (1,231) (343) (4,511)
Disposals – 207 10 15 24 256
Amortisation charge – (546) (32) (101) (36) (715)
Impairment charge – (52) – – – (52)
Exchange and other movements 70 60 (148) 108 28 118
As at 31 December 2017 (860) (2,195) (313) (1,209) (327) (4,904)
Net book value 3,899 3,306 114 338 192 7,849
2016
Cost 
As at 1 January 2016 5,603 4,112 542 1,665 703 12,625
Additions and disposals (77) 955 2 59 78 1,017
Exchange and other movements (679) (140) (340) (16) (230) (1,405)
As at 31 December 2016 4,847 4,927 204 1,708 551 12,237
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2016 (998) (1,634) (212) (1,081) (478) (4,403)
Disposals 77 46 1 14 12 150
Amortisation charge – (476) (36) (129) (29) (670)
Impairment charge – (72) (1) – (1) (74)
Exchange and other movements (9) 272 105 (35) 153 486
As at 31 December 2016 (930) (1,864) (143) (1,231) (343) (4,511)
Net book value 3,917 3,063 61 477 208 7,726

Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments as follows:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Barclays UK 3,574 3,556
Barclays International 325 361
Total net book value of goodwill 3,899 3,917

Goodwill
Testing goodwill for impairment involves a significant amount of judgement. This includes the identification of independent CGUs and the 
allocation of goodwill to these units based on which units are expected to benefit from the acquisition. The allocation is reviewed following 
business reorganisations. Cash flow projections necessarily take into account changes in the market in which a business operates including 
the level of growth, competitive activity, and the impacts of regulatory change. Determining both the expected pre-tax cash flows and the risk 
adjusted interest rate appropriate to the operating unit requires the exercise of judgement. The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive 
to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding long-term sustainable cash flows.

Other intangible assets
Determining the estimated useful lives of intangible assets (such as those arising from contractual relationships) requires an analysis of 
circumstances. The assessment of whether an asset is exhibiting indicators of impairment as well as the calculation of impairment, which requires 
the estimate of future cash flows and fair values less costs to sell, also requires the preparation of cash flow forecasts and fair values for assets that 
may not be regularly bought and sold.

Impairment testing of goodwill 
During 2017, the Group recognised an impairment charge of £nil (2016: £nil).

Key assumptions
The key assumptions used for impairment testing are set out below for each significant goodwill balance. Other goodwill of £769m (2016: £787m) 
was allocated to multiple CGUs which are not considered individually significant.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 281

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Non-current assets and other investments
Notes to the financial statements

24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued
Barclays UK
Goodwill relating to Woolwich in Personal Banking and Business Banking was £3,130m (2016: £3,130m) of the total Barclays UK balance. The 
carrying value of the CGU has been determined by using net asset value. The recoverable amount of the CGU, calculated as value in use, has been 
determined using cash flow predictions based on financial budgets approved by management and covering a five-year period, with a terminal 
growth rate of 2.0% (2016: 2.0%) applied thereafter. The forecast cash flows have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 13.9% (2016: 14.6%). 
Based on these assumptions, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by £5,262m (2016: £4,130m). A one 
percentage point change in the discount rate or terminal growth rate would increase or decrease the recoverable amount by £1,128m (2016: 
£988m) and £734m (2016: £615m) respectively. A reduction in the forecast cash flows of 10% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount 
by £1,409m (2016: £1,293m).

The increase in headroom in 2017 reflects changes in discount rate and future cash flow projections.

25 Operating leases

Accounting for operating leases
The Group applies IAS 17 Leases, for operating leases. An operating lease is a lease where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the leased 
assets remain with the lessor. Where the Group is the lessor, lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease 
unless another systematic basis is more appropriate. The Group holds the leased assets on-balance sheet within property, plant and equipment. 

Where the Group is the lessee, rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.

Operating lease receivables
The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying 
as operating leases. The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases was £nil (2016: £nil).

Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. With such operating lease 
arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessor's balance sheet and the Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an expense over the 
lease term. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. 

Operating lease rentals of £342m (2016: £560m) have been included in administration and general expenses.

The future minimum lease payments by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

2017 2016
Property

£m
Equipment

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m
Not more than one year 332 2 364 –
Over one year but not more than five years 844 21 974 23
Over five years 1,337 – 1,520 –
Total 2,513 23 2,858 23

Total future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases was £53m (2016: £2m). 

282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on the Group's accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities. Provisions are recognised for present 
obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the 
obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Contingent liabilities reflect potential liabilities that are not recognised on the balance sheet.

26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
2017

£m
2016

£m
Accruals and deferred income 3,951 4,422
Other creditors 4,563 4,382
Obligations under finance leases (refer to Note 21) 20 15
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 31 52
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 8,565 8,871

27 Provisions

Accounting for provisions
The Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in accounting for non-financial liabilities.

Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of 
economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, which can be reliably estimated. Provision is made for the anticipated cost of 
restructuring, including redundancy costs when an obligation exists; for example, when the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring 
a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by announcing its main features or starting to implement the 
plan. Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition of an asset 
at an amount less than the amount advanced.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The financial reporting of provisions involves a significant degree of judgement and is complex. Identifying whether a present obligation exists 
and estimating the probability, timing, nature and quantum of the outflows that may arise from past events requires judgements to be made 
based on the specific facts and circumstances relating to individual events and often requires specialist professional advice. When matters are 
at an early stage, accounting judgements and estimates can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty involved. Management 
continues to monitor matters as they develop to re-evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, however there can 
remain a wide range of possible outcomes and uncertainties, particularly in relation to legal, competition and regulatory matters, and as a result 
it is often not practicable to make meaningful estimates even when matters are at a more advanced stage. 

The complexity of such matters often requires the input of specialist professional advice in making assessments to produce estimates. 
Customer redress and legal, competition and regulatory matters are areas where a higher degree of professional judgement is required. The 
amount that is recognised as a provision can also be very sensitive to the assumptions made in calculating it. This gives rise to a large range of 
potential outcomes which require judgement in determining an appropriate provision level. See below for information on payment protection 
redress and Note 29 for more detail of legal, competition and regulatory matters. 

Onerous
 contracts

£m

Redundancy
 and 

restructuring
£m

Undrawn 
contractually

 committed
 facilities and

 guarantees
£m

 
Customer redress

Legal, 
competition

and
regulatory 

matters 
£m

Sundry
provisions

£m
Total

£m

Payment
Protection
Insurance

£m

Other
customer

redress
£m

As at 1 January 2017 385 206 67 1,979 712 455 330 4,134
Additions 81 163 73 709 369 398 182 1,975

Amounts utilised (210) (124) (1) (1,094) (345) (341) (99) (2,214)
Unused amounts reversed (33) (85) (60) – (83) (55) (30) (346)
Exchange and other movements 2 (1) – 12 (14) (22) 17 (6)
As at 31 December 2017 225 159 79 1,606 639 435 400 3,543

Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31 December 2017 were £2,394m (2016: £2,045m).

Onerous contracts
Onerous contract provisions comprise an estimate of the costs involved with fulfilling the terms and conditions of contracts net of any expected 
benefits to be received.

Redundancy and restructuring
These provisions comprise the estimated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists. Additions made during 
the year relate to formal restructuring plans and have either been utilised, or reversed, where total costs are now expected to be lower than the 
original provision amount.

Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees
Provisions are made if it is probable that a facility will be drawn and the resulting asset is expected to have a realisable value that is less than the 
amount advanced.

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 283

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings

Notes to the financial statements

27 Provisions continued

Customer redress
Customer redress provisions comprise the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers, clients and counterparties for losses or 
damages associated with inappropriate judgement in the execution of Barclays' business activities. Provisions for other customer redress include 
£211m (2016: £264m) in respect of historic pricing practices associated with Foreign Exchange transactions for certain customers between 2005 
and 2012 and smaller provisions across the retail and corporate businesses which are likely to be utilised in the next 12 months. Included within 
provisions for UK customer redress on the face of the consolidated income statement is PPI and material additions in respect of historic pricing 
practices associated with Foreign Exchange transactions for certain customers between 2005 and 2012 and Packaged Bank Accounts.

Legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Group is engaged in various legal proceedings, both in the UK and a number of other overseas jurisdictions, including the US. For further 
information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion of the associated uncertainties, please refer to Note 29.

Sundry provisions
This category includes provisions that do not fit into any of the other categories, such as fraud losses and dilapidation provisions. 

Payment Protection Insurance Redress
As at 31 December 2017, Barclays had recognised cumulative provisions totalling £9.2bn (2016: £8.4bn) against the cost of Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) redress and associated processing costs with utilisation of £7.6bn (2016: £6.4bn), leaving a residual provision of £1.6bn 
(2016: £2.0bn).

Through to 31 December 2017, 2.1m (2016: 1.8m) customer initiated claimsa had been received and processed. The volume of claims received 
during 2017 increased 16% from 2016. This increase may have been impacted by a FCA advertising campaign launched in H2 2017.

The current provision reflects the estimated costs of PPI redress primarily relating to customer initiated complaints and ongoing remediation 
programmes, based on information at year end. This also includes liabilities managed by third parties arising from portfolios previously sold 
where Barclays remains liable, based on information at year end. 

As at 31 December 2017, the provision of £1.6bn represents Barclays' best estimate of expected PPI redress reflecting the complaints deadline 
implemented by the FCA of 29 August 2019. However, it is possible the eventual outcome may differ from the current estimate. We will continue 
to review the adequacy of provision level in respect of the future impacts. 

The PPI provision is calculated using a number of key assumptions which continue to involve significant modelling and management judgement:
■■ Customer initiated claim volumes – claims received but not yet processed plus an estimate of future claims initiated by customers, where 

the volume is anticipated to cease after the PPI deadline.
■■ Average claim redress – the expected average payment to customers for upheld claims based on the type and age of the policy/policies.
■■ Processing cost per claim – the cost to Barclays of assessing and processing each valid claim. 

These assumptions remain subjective, mainly due to the uncertainty associated with future claims levels, which include complaints driven by 
CMC activity and the FCA advertising campaign. 

The following table details actual data through to 31 December 2017, key forecast assumptions used in the provision calculation and a sensitivity 
analysis illustrating the impact on the provision if the future expected assumptions prove too high or too low.

Assumption

Cumulative 
actual to 
31.12.17

Future 
expected

Sensitivity
 analysis

 increase/
decrease in

 provision
Customer initiated claims received and processed (thousands)a 2,130 570 50k=£104m
Average uphold rate per claim (%)b 87 87 1%=£11m
Average redress per valid claim (£)c 2,036 1,989 £100=£50m

Notes
a Total claims received directly by Barclays to date, including those received via claims management companies but excluding those for which no PPI policy exists and excluding 

responses to proactive mailing. The sensitivity analysis has been calculated to show the impact a 50,000 increase or decrease in the number of customer initiated claims would 
have on the provision level.

b  Average uphold rate per customer initiated claims received directly by Barclays and proactive mailings, excluding those for which no PPI policy exists. The sensitivity analysis has 
been calculated to show the impact a 1% change in the average uphold rate per claim would have on the provision level. 

c  Average redress stated on a per policy basis for future customer initiated complaints received directly by Barclays. The sensitivity analysis has been calculated to show the impact 
a £100 increase or decrease in the average redress per claim would have on the provision level.

284 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
28 Contingent liabilities and commitments

Accounting for contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where 
the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet 
but are disclosed unless the outflow of economic resources is remote.

The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments which are not recorded on-balance sheet:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 14,275 15,303
Performance guarantees, acceptances and endorsements 4,737 4,636
Total contingent liabilities 19,012 19,939

Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 812 1,005
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 314,761 302,681
Total commitments 315,573 303,686

The Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the FSCS) is the UK's government-backed compensation scheme for customers of authorised 
institutions that are unable to pay claims. The compensation paid out to customers is funded through loan facilities provided by HM Treasury to 
the FSCS which at 31 December 2017 stood at approximately £4.7bn (2016: £15.7bn). During 2017, the HM Treasury loan facility has reduced by 
the Bradford and Bingley repayment of £10.9bn, following the sale from UK Asset Resolution. Barclays' liability is restricted to the proportionate 
outstanding amount that the FSCS is unable to repay to Treasury. The FSCS levy on UK licensed deposit-taking institutions has been recognised in 
2017. Barclays has included an accrual of £2.7m in other liabilities as at 31 December 2017 (2016: £55m) in respect of the Barclays portion of the 
Interest Levy.

Further details on contingent liabilities relating to legal and competition and regulatory matters can be found in Note 29.

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group face legal, competition and regulatory challenges, many of which are beyond our control. 
The extent of the impact on Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group of these matters cannot always be predicted but may materially impact 
our operations, financial results, condition and prospects. Matters arising from a set of similar circumstances can give rise to either a contingent 
liability or a provision, or both, depending on the relevant facts and circumstances. The recognition of provisions in relation to such matters 
involves critical accounting estimates and judgments in accordance with the relevant accounting policies as described in Note 27. The Group 
has not disclosed an estimate of the potential financial effect on the Group of contingent liabilities where it is not currently practicable to do so.

Investigations into certain advisory services agreements and other matters and civil action 
The UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO), the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the US Department of Justice (DOJ) and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) have been conducting investigations into certain advisory services agreements entered into by Barclays Bank PLC.

Background Information
Barclays Bank PLC entered into two advisory services agreements with Qatar Holding LLC (Qatar Holding) in June and October 2008 (the 
Agreements). The FCA commenced an investigation into whether the Agreements may have related to Barclays PLC's capital raisings in June and 
November 2008 (the Capital Raisings). The existence of the June 2008 advisory services agreement was disclosed, but the entry into the advisory 
services agreement in October 2008 and the fees payable under the Agreements, which amounted to a total of £322m payable over a period 
of five years, were not disclosed in the announcements or public documents relating to the Capital Raisings. The SFO also commenced an 
investigation into the Agreements and into a $3bn loan (the Loan) provided by Barclays Bank PLC in November 2008 to the State of Qatar.

SFO Proceedings
In June 2017, the SFO charged Barclays PLC with two offences of conspiring with certain former senior officers and employees of Barclays to 
commit fraud by false representations relating to the Agreements and one offence of unlawful financial assistance contrary to section 151 of the 
Companies Act 1985 in relation to the Loan. In February 2018, the SFO also charged Barclays Bank PLC with the same offence in respect of the 
Loan. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC intend to defend the respective charges brought against them (the Charges). The trial of the Charges 
has been scheduled to begin in January 2019.

FCA Proceedings and other investigations
In September 2013, the FCA issued warning notices (the Notices) finding that, while Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believed at the time 
of the execution of the Agreements that there should be at least some unspecified and undetermined value to be derived from them, the primary 
purpose of the Agreements was not to obtain advisory services but to make additional payments, which would not be disclosed, for the Qatari 
participation in the Capital Raisings. The Notices concluded that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC were in breach of certain disclosure-related 
listing rules and Barclays PLC was also in breach of Listing Principle 3 (the requirement to act with integrity towards holders and potential holders 
of the Company's shares). In this regard, the FCA considers that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC acted recklessly. The financial penalty 
provided in the Notices against the Group is £50m. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC continue to contest the findings. The FCA action has 
been stayed due to the SFO proceedings. 

In addition, the DOJ and the SEC have been conducting investigations relating to the Agreements.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 285

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes to the financial statements

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued 
Civil Action 
In January 2016, PCP Capital Partners LLP and PCP International Finance Limited (PCP) served a claim on Barclays Bank PLC seeking damages of 
£721.4m plus interest and costs for fraudulent misrepresentation and deceit, arising from alleged statements made by Barclays Bank PLC to PCP 
in relation to the terms on which securities were to be issued to potential investors, allegedly including PCP, in the November 2008 capital raising. 
Following amendment of their claim in November 2017, PCP now seeks damages of up to £1,477m (plus interest from November 2017) and costs. 
Barclays Bank PLC is defending the claim and trial is scheduled to commence in October 2019.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. PCP has made a claim against Barclays Bank PLC 
for damages of up to £1,477m plus interest and costs. This amount does not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLC's potential financial exposure if 
a ruling were to be made against it in that matter.

Investigations into certain business relationships 
In 2012, the DOJ and SEC commenced investigations in relation to whether certain relationships with third parties who assist Barclays PLC to win 
or retain business are compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Various regulators in other jurisdictions are also being briefed on the 
investigations. Separately, the Group is cooperating with the DOJ and SEC in relation to an investigation into certain of its hiring practices in Asia 
and elsewhere and is keeping certain regulators in other jurisdictions informed.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigations relating to whistleblowing systems and controls 
The FCA and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) are conducting investigations in relation to the Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
and Barclays Bank PLC in connection with certain whistleblowing issues.

Background Information
In April 2017, the FCA and PRA commenced investigations into the CEO as to his individual conduct and senior manager responsibilities relating 
to Barclays' whistleblowing programme and to his attempt in 2016 to identify the author of a letter that was treated by Barclays Bank PLC as 
a whistleblow; and Barclays Bank PLC, as to its responsibilities relating to the attempt by the CEO to identify the author of the letter, as well 
as Barclays' systems and controls and culture relating to whistleblowing.

The attempt to identify the author of the letter first came to the attention of the Barclays PLC Board (Board) early in 2017. The Board instructed 
an external law firm to conduct a focussed investigation into the matter and also notified the FCA and PRA and other relevant authorities. 
The investigation found, and the Board concluded, that the CEO honestly, but mistakenly, believed that it was permissible to identify the author. 
However, the Board concluded that the CEO made an error in becoming involved with, and not applying appropriate governance around the 
matter, and in taking action to attempt to identify the author of the letter. 

Barclays and the CEO are cooperating fully with the FCA and PRA investigations. Barclays is also providing information to, and cooperating with, 
authorities in the US with respect to these matters.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigations relating to retail structured deposits and capital protected structured notes 
The FCA is conducting enforcement investigations in relation to certain structured deposits and notes provided by Barclays in the past.

Background Information
In 2015, the FCA commenced an enforcement investigation relating to the design, manufacture and sale of structured deposits by Barclays from 
November 2009. The investigation is at an advanced stage. In January 2018, the FCA also commenced an enforcement investigation relating to 
the design, manufacture and sale of capital protected structured notes by Barclays from June 2008 to July 2014. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. 

Investigation into collections and recoveries relating to unsecured lending
In February 2018, the FCA commenced an enforcement investigation in relation to whether or not Barclays Bank PLC, from July 2015, implemented 
effective systems and controls with respect to collections and recoveries and whether or not it paid due consideration to the interests of 
customers in default and arrears.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the investigation on the Group or what effect that it might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings

286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Investigation into Americas Wealth & Investment Management advisory business 
The SEC has carried out an investigation into certain practices in Barclays' former Wealth Americas investment advisory business relating to 
certain due diligence failures, fee and billing practices and mutual fund fee waivers and related disclosures. In May 2017, the SEC announced 
a settlement pursuant to which Barclays Capital Inc. (BCI) agreed to resolve this matter for USD97m, consisting of a penalty of USD30m paid 
to the SEC and USD67m paid to the clients, in remediation and disgorgement.

Investigation into suspected money laundering related to foreign exchange transactions in South African operation 
Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Africa Group Limited, which was a subsidiary of Barclays at the relevant time, identified potentially 
fraudulent activity by certain of its customers using advance payments for imports in 2014 and 2015 to effect foreign exchange transfers from 
South Africa to beneficiary accounts located in East Asia, UK, Europe and the US. As a result, the Group conducted a review of relevant activity, 
processes, systems and controls. The Group is continuing to provide information to relevant authorities as part of the Group's ongoing 
cooperation. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigations into LIBOR and other benchmarks 
Regulators and law enforcement agencies, including certain competition authorities, from a number of governments have been conducting 
investigations relating to Barclays Bank PLC's involvement in manipulating certain financial benchmarks, such as LIBOR and EURIBOR. 

Background Information
In 2012, Barclays Bank PLC announced that it had reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (as predecessor to the FCA), 
the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the DOJ in relation to their investigations concerning certain benchmark interest 
rate submissions, and Barclays Bank PLC paid total penalties of £290m. The settlement with the DOJ was made by entry into a Non-Prosecution 
Agreement (NPA) which has now expired. Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI have reached settlements with certain other regulators and 
law enforcement agencies. Barclays Bank PLC continues to respond to requests for information from the SFO in relation to its ongoing LIBOR 
investigation, including in respect of Barclays Bank PLC. The investigation by the prosecutor's office in Trani, Italy also remains pending.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

LIBOR and other benchmark civil actions 
A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks 
in relation to LIBOR and/or other benchmarks.

Background Information
Following settlement of the investigations referred to above in ‘Investigations into LIBOR and other Benchmarks' various individuals and 
corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group. While certain cases have been dismissed or 
settled subject to approval from the court (and in the case of class actions, the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek 
to file their own claims), other actions remain pending and their ultimate impact is unclear.

USD LIBOR Cases in MDL Court
The majority of the USD LIBOR cases, which have been filed in various US jurisdictions, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes before 
a single judge in the US District Court in the Southern District of New York (SDNY) (MDL Court).

The complaints are substantially similar and allege, amongst other things, that Barclays Bank PLC and the other banks individually and collectively 
violated provisions of the US Sherman Antitrust Act (Antitrust Act), the US Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), the US Racketeer Influenced and 
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and various state laws by manipulating USD LIBOR rates.

The proposed class actions purported to be brought on behalf of (amongst others) plaintiffs that (i) engaged in USD LIBOR-linked over-the-
counter transactions (OTC Class); (ii) purchased USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments on an exchange (Exchange-Based Class); (iii) purchased 
USD LIBOR-linked debt securities (Debt Securities Class); (iv) purchased adjustable-rate mortgages linked to USD LIBOR (Homeowner Class); or 
(v) issued loans linked to USD LIBOR (Lender Class).

The lawsuits seek unspecified damages with the exception of five lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs are seeking a combined total in excess of 
$1.25bn in actual damages against all defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, plus punitive damages. Some of the lawsuits also seek trebling 
of damages under the Antitrust Act and RICO.

Between 2013 and 2016, the MDL Court issued a series of decisions effectively dismissing the majority of claims, including antitrust claims, 
against Barclays Bank PLC and other foreign defendants in both class actions and individual actions. In May 2016, the appeal court reversed the 
MDL Court's decision and remanded the antitrust claims to the MDL Court for further consideration. Following further consideration, the MDL 
Court dismissed the majority of antitrust claims against foreign defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, for lack of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs 
in a number of individual actions and class actions are appealing the MDL Court's personal jurisdiction ruling.

In 2014, the MDL Court granted preliminary approval for the settlement of the Exchange-Based Class claims for $20m, of which $5m was paid in 
October 2014 and the remaining $15m in September 2017. The settlement remains subject to court approval and the right of class members to 
opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

In 2015, the OTC Class claims were settled for $120m which was paid in 2017. The settlement remains subject to final approval. 

In November 2016, $7.1m was paid in settlement of the Debt Securities Class claims. The settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court 
but remains subject to final approval and the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and seek to file their own claims.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 287

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
EURIBOR Case in the SDNY
In 2015, $94m was paid in settlement of a EURIBOR-related class action. The settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court but remains 
subject to final approval and the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

Additional USD LIBOR Case in the SDNY
In 2015, an individual action against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank defendants was dismissed by the SDNY. The plaintiff alleged that the 
panel bank defendants conspired to increase USD LIBOR, which caused the value of bonds pledged as collateral for a loan to decrease, ultimately 
resulting in the sale of the bonds at a low point in the market. The plaintiff 's motion to file a further amended complaint is pending.

Sterling LIBOR Case in SDNY
In 2015, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved in 
exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives that were linked to Sterling LIBOR. The complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants 
manipulated the Sterling LIBOR rate between 2005 and 2010 and, in so doing, committed CEA, Antitrust Act, and RICO violations. In early 2016, 
this class action was consolidated with an additional putative class action making similar allegations against Barclays Bank PLC and BCI and other 
Sterling LIBOR panel banks. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss.

Japanese Yen LIBOR Cases in SDNY
In 2012, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Japanese Yen LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved 
in exchange-traded derivatives. The complaint also names members of the Japanese Bankers Association's Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate 
(Euroyen TIBOR) panel, of which Barclays Bank PLC is not a member. The complaint alleges, amongst other things, manipulation of the Euroyen 
TIBOR and Yen LIBOR rates and breaches of the CEA and Antitrust Act between 2006 and 2010. In 2014, the court dismissed the plaintiff 's 
antitrust claims in full, but the plaintiff 's CEA claims remain pending. Discovery is ongoing.

In March 2017, a second putative class action concerning Yen LIBOR filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI was 
dismissed in full. The complaint makes similar allegations to the 2012 class action. Plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal.

SIBOR/SOR Case in the SDNY
A putative class action filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, and other defendants, alleging manipulation of the 
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate (SIBOR) and Singapore Swap Offer Rate (SOR) was dismissed by the court in relation to claims against Barclays 
for failure to state a claim. Plaintiffs amended their complaint in September 2017, and defendants have filed a motion to dismiss. 

Non-US Benchmarks Cases
In addition to US actions, legal proceedings have been brought or threatened against the Group in connection with alleged manipulation of LIBOR 
and EURIBOR and other benchmarks in a number of jurisdictions in Europe and Argentina. Additional proceedings in non-US jurisdictions may be 
brought in the future.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular 
period.

Foreign Exchange investigations 
Various regulatory and enforcement authorities across multiple jurisdictions have been investigating a range of issues associated with Foreign 
Exchange sales and trading, including electronic trading. 

Background Information
In 2015 the Group reached settlements with the CFTC, the DOJ, the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS), the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the FCA (together, the 2015 Resolving Authorities) in relation to investigations 
into certain sales and trading practices in the Foreign Exchange market. In connection with these settlements, the Group paid total penalties 
of approximately $2.38bn and agreed to undertake certain remedial actions.

Under the plea agreement with the DOJ, in addition to a criminal fine, Barclays PLC agreed to a term of probation of three years during which 
Barclays PLC must, amongst other things, (i) commit no crime whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) implement and continue 
to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement, (iii) report credible evidence 
of criminal violations of US antitrust or fraud laws to the relevant US authority, and (iv) strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required 
by relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies. In January 2017, the US District Court for the District of Connecticut accepted the plea agreement 
and in accordance with the agreement sentenced Barclays PLC to pay $650m as a fine and $60m for violating the NPA (which amounts are part of 
the $2.38bn referred to above) and to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing order. The Group also continues to provide 
relevant information to certain of the 2015 Resolving Authorities.

The full text of the DOJ plea agreement, the orders of the CFTC, NYDFS and Federal Reserve, and the Final Notice issued by the FCA related to the 
settlements referred to above are publicly available on the 2015 Resolving Authorities' respective websites.

The European Commission is one of several authorities conducting an investigation into certain trading practices in the Foreign Exchange market.

The DOJ is also conducting an investigation into conduct relating to certain trading activities in connection with certain transactions during 2011 
and 2012. Barclays is providing information to the DOJ and other relevant authorities reviewing this conduct. In January 2018, a Barclays employee 
currently under suspension was indicted in US federal court in connection with this matter.

In February 2017 the South African Competition Commission (SACC) referred Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of 
Barclays Africa Group Limited, which at the relevant time was a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC, among other banks, to the Competition Tribunal 
to be prosecuted for breaches of South African antitrust law related to Foreign Exchange trading of South African Rand. Barclays was the first to 
bring the conduct to the attention of the SACC under its leniency programme. The SACC is therefore not seeking an order from the Tribunal to 
impose any fine on Barclays Bank PLC, BCI or Absa Bank Limited.

288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, and a provision of £240m recognised in Q4 2017, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate 
of any further financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have on the Group's operating results, cash flows 
or financial position in any particular period.

Civil actions in respect of Foreign Exchange 
A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in 
relation to Foreign Exchange.

Background Information
Following settlement of certain investigations referred to above in ‘Foreign Exchange Investigations' a number of individuals and corporates in a 
range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in relation to Foreign Exchange or may do so in 
future. Certain of these cases have been dismissed or have been settled subject to final approval from the relevant court (and in the case of class 
actions, the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims).

Consolidated FX Action
In 2014, a number of civil actions filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of Foreign Exchange markets 
under the Antitrust Act and New York state law and naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, were 
combined into a single consolidated action (Consolidated FX Action). In 2015, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI settled the Consolidated FX Action and 
paid $384m. Certain class members have opted out of the settlement to seek to file their own claims. The settlement is also subject to final court 
approval.

ERISA FX Action
Since 2015, several civil actions have been filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs purporting to allege different legal theories 
of injury (other than those alleged in the Consolidated FX Action) related to alleged manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates, including claims 
under the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) statute (ERISA Claims), and naming several international banks as defendants, 
including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI. The Court has dismissed the ERISA Claims, and the plaintiffs have appealed this decision.

Retail Basis Action
A putative action was filed in the Northern District of California (and subsequently transferred to the SDNY) against several international banks, 
including Barclays PLC and BCI, on behalf of a putative class of individuals that exchanged currencies on a retail basis at bank branches (Retail 
Basis Claims). The Court has ruled that the Retail Basis Claims are not covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action. The 
Court subsequently dismissed all Retail Basis Claims against Barclays and all other defendants. Plaintiffs amended their complaint and defendants 
(including Barclays) have moved to dismiss the amended complaint.

Last Look Actions 
In 2015, two putative class actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging injuries based on Barclays' purported 
improper rejection of customer trades through Barclays Last Look functionality in Barclays' FX e-trading platforms In 2016, Barclays Bank PLC and 
BCI paid $50m and settled one of the actions on a class-wide basis. (The other action was voluntarily dismissed.) The deadline for opting out of 
the class has expired (a small number of class members have opted out), and the Court has granted final approval of the settlement.

State Law FX Action
In 2016, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY under federal, New York and California law on behalf of proposed classes of stockholders 
of Exchange Traded Funds and others who supposedly were indirect investors in FX Instruments. The defendants (including Barclays) moved to 
dismiss the action. Plaintiffs' counsel then amended the complaint to bring claims on behalf of a proposed class of investors under federal and 
various state laws who traded FX Instruments through FX dealers or brokers not alleged to have manipulated Foreign Exchange Rates. A different 
group of plaintiffs subsequently filed another action based on the same theories and asserted substantively similar claims. These two actions have 
been consolidated and a consolidated complaint was filed in June 2017. Defendants (including Barclays) have moved to dismiss the action.

Canadian FX Action
Civil actions similar to the Consolidated FX Action have been filed in Canadian courts on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs containing similar 
factual allegations of manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates and of damages resulting from such manipulation, in violation of Canadian law. 
The parties' settlement for $14.8m has been approved by the court.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described above on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any 
particular period.

Civil actions in respect of ISDAFIX
In 2014, a number of ISDAFIX related civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed class of plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays Bank PLC, 
a number of other banks and one broker violated the Antitrust Act and several state laws by engaging in a conspiracy to manipulate the USD 
ISDAFIX. In 2016, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI entered into a settlement agreement with plaintiffs to resolve the consolidated action and paid $30m, 
fully resolving all ISDAFIX-related claims that were or could have been brought by the class. The court has preliminarily approved the settlement, 
which remains subject to final approval and to the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
The principal financial impact of the actions described on the Group is reflected in the settlement described above.

Metals investigations 
Barclays Bank PLC has provided information to the DOJ, the CFTC and other authorities in connection with investigations into metals and 
metals-based financial instruments.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 289

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Civil actions in respect of the gold and silver fix
Various civil actions have been filed against Barclays Bank PLC and others alleging manipulation of the prices of gold and silver.

Background Information
A number of civil complaints, each on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, have been consolidated and transferred to the SDNY. The complaints 
allege that Barclays Bank PLC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Ltd. manipulated the prices of gold and gold derivative 
contracts in violation of the CEA, the Antitrust Act, and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. Also in the US, a proposed class of plaintiffs 
has filed a complaint against a number of banks, including Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and Barclays Capital Services Ltd., alleging manipulation of the 
price of silver in violation of the CEA and antitrust laws. Defendants have moved to dismiss these actions.

Civil actions have also been filed in Canadian courts against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Capital Canada Inc., BCI and Barclays Capital 
PLC on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of gold and silver prices in violation of Canadian law. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

US residential and commercial mortgage-related activity and litigation 
There have been various investigations and civil litigation relating to secondary market trading of US residential mortgage-backed securities 
(RMBS) and US commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS).

Background Information
The Group's activities within the US residential mortgage sector during the period from 2005 through 2008 included:
■■ sponsoring and underwriting of approximately $39bn of private-label securitisations;
■■ economic underwriting exposure of approximately $34bn for other private-label securitisations;
■■ sales of approximately $0.2bn of loans to government sponsored enterprises (GSEs);
■■ sales of approximately $3bn of loans to others; and
■■ sales of approximately $19.4bn of loans (net of approximately $500m of loans sold during this period and subsequently repurchased) that were 

originated and sold to third parties by mortgage originator affiliates of an entity that the Group acquired in 2007 (Acquired Subsidiary).

DOJ Civil Action 
In December 2016, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC, BCI, Barclays Group US Inc., Barclays US LLC, BCAP LLC, 
Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC and Sutton Funding LLC, as well as two former employees, in the US District Court in the Eastern District 
of New York (EDNY) containing a number of allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold between 2005 
and 2007. The DOJ complaint seeks, amongst other relief, unspecified monetary penalties. Barclays is defending the complaint and has filed a 
motion to dismiss. 

RMBS Repurchase Requests
The Group was the sole provider of various loan-level representations and warranties (R&Ws) with respect to:
■■ approximately $5bn of Group sponsored securitisations;
■■ approximately $0.2bn of sales of loans to GSEs; and
■■ approximately $3bn of loans sold to others.

In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary provided R&Ws on all of the $19.4bn of loans it sold to third parties.

R&Ws on the remaining Group sponsored securitisations were primarily provided by third-party originators directly to the securitisation trusts with 
a Group subsidiary, such as the depositor for the securitisation, providing more limited R&Ws. There are no stated expiration provisions applicable 
to most R&Ws made by the Group, the Acquired Subsidiary or these third parties.

Under certain circumstances, the Group and/or the Acquired Subsidiary may be required to repurchase the related loans or make other payments 
related to such loans if the R&Ws are breached.

The unresolved repurchase requests received on or before 31 December 2017 associated with all R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired 
Subsidiary on loans sold to GSEs and others and private-label activities had an original unpaid principal balance of approximately $2.1bn at the 
time of such sale.

The unresolved repurchase requests discussed above relate to civil actions that have been commenced by the trustees for certain RMBS 
securitisations in which the trustees allege that the Group and/or the Acquired Subsidiary must repurchase loans that violated the operative 
R&Ws. Such trustees and other parties making repurchase requests have also alleged that the operative R&Ws may have been violated with 
respect to a greater (but unspecified) amount of loans than the amount of loans previously stated in specific repurchase requests made by such 
trustees. Cumulative realised losses reported at 31 December 2017 on loans covered by R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired Subsidiary are 
approximately $1.3bn. This litigation is ongoing.

In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary is subject to a more advanced civil action seeking, among other things, indemnification for losses allegedly 
suffered by a loan purchaser as a result of alleged breaches of R&Ws provided by the Acquired Subsidiary in connection with loan sales to the 
purchaser during the period 1997 to 2007. This litigation is ongoing.

290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
RMBS Securities Claims
As a result of some of the RMBS activities described above, the Group has been party to a number of lawsuits filed by purchasers of RMBS 
sponsored and/or underwritten by the Group between 2005 and 2008. As a general matter, these lawsuits alleged, among other things, that 
the RMBS offering materials allegedly relied on by such purchasers contained materially false and misleading statements and/or omissions 
and generally demanded rescission and recovery of the consideration paid for the RMBS and recovery of monetary losses arising out of their 
ownership. The Group has resolved the majority of these claims, and only one action currently remains pending. 

Approximately $0.1bn of the original face amount of RMBS related to the remaining pending action was outstanding as at 31 December 2017. 
There were virtually no cumulative realised losses reported on these RMBS as at 31 December 2017. The Group does not expect that, if it were 
to lose the remaining pending action, any such loss to be material.

Secondary Trading Investigation
The Group has received requests for information and subpoenas from the SEC, the US Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut and the 
Special Inspector General for the US Troubled Asset Relief Program related to trading practices in the secondary market for both RMBS and CMBS. 
A settlement was announced in May 2017 pursuant to which BCI agreed to resolve this matter for $16.56m. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Save for the remaining pending action described under ‘RMBS Securities Claims' and the May 2017 settlement above, it is not currently practicable 
to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's 
operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. The cost of resolving these actions could individually or in aggregate 
prove to be substantial.

Alternative trading systems and high-frequency trading 
The SEC, the New York State Attorney General (NYAG) and regulators in certain other jurisdictions have been investigating a range of issues 
associated with alternative trading systems (ATSs), including dark pools, and the activities of high-frequency traders.

Background Information
In 2014, the NYAG filed a complaint (NYAG Complaint) against Barclays PLC and BCI in the Supreme Court of the State of New York alleging, 
amongst other things, that Barclays PLC and BCI engaged in fraud and deceptive practices in connection with LX, the Group's SEC-registered ATS. 
In February 2016, Barclays reached separate settlement agreements with the SEC and the NYAG to resolve those agencies' claims against Barclays 
PLC and BCI relating to the operation of LX and paid $35m to each.

Barclays PLC and BCI have been named in a purported class action by an institutional financial services firm under California law based on 
allegations similar to those in the NYAG Complaint. In October 2016, the federal court in California granted the motion of Barclays PLC and BCI 
to dismiss the entire complaint and plaintiffs have appealed the court's decision.

Following the filing of the NYAG Complaint, Barclays PLC and BCI were also named in a putative shareholder securities class action along with 
certain of its former CEOs, and its current and a former CFO, as well as an employee (Shareholder Class Action). The plaintiffs claim that holders 
of Barclays American Depository Receipts (ADRs) suffered damages when the ADRs declined in value as a result of the allegations in the NYAG 
Complaint. A motion to dismiss the complaint filed by the defendants (including Barclays PLC and BCI), was granted in part and denied in part by 
the court. In February 2016, the court certified the action as a class action. In November 2017, the appellate court affirmed the class certification. 
Barclays has petitioned the appellate court to stay the action pending review by the US Supreme Court of the class certification.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
The class actions seek unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial 
impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position 
in any particular period.

FERC and other civil actions 
The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and certain of its former traders in connection 
with allegations that Barclays Bank PLC manipulated the electricity markets in the Western US.

Background Information
In 2012, FERC issued an Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalties (Order and Notice) against Barclays Bank PLC and four of its 
former traders asserting that Barclays Bank PLC and its former traders violated FERC's Anti-Manipulation Rule by manipulating the electricity 
markets in and around California from 2006 to 2008, and proposed civil penalties and profit disgorgement to be paid by Barclays Bank PLC.

In 2013, FERC filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and its former traders in the US District Court in California seeking to collect a $435m 
civil penalty and disgorgement of $34.9m of profits, plus interest. The action was settled for $105m ($70m penalty and $35m disgorgement) 
which was paid in 2017.

In 2015, a civil class action complaint seeking damages of $139.3m was filed in the US District Court for the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC 
by Merced Irrigation District, a California utility company, asserting antitrust allegations in connection with Barclays Bank PLC's purported 
manipulation of the electricity markets in and around California. The action has been settled in principle for $29m (subject to court approval 
and to the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims).

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Apart from the settlement amounts referred to above, Barclays does not expect the financial impact of the actions described above to be material 
to the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position.

Treasury auction securities civil actions and related matters
Various civil actions have been filed against Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other financial institutions alleging violations of anti-trust and other laws 
relating to the markets for US Treasury securities and Supranational, Sovereign and Agency securities. Certain governmental authorities are also 
conducting investigations relating to trading of certain government securities in various markets.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 291

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and 
legal proceedings
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Background information
Numerous putative class action complaints have been filed in US Federal Court against Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other financial institutions that 
have served as primary dealers in US Treasury securities. Those actions have been consolidated and in November 2017, plaintiffs in the putative 
class action filed a consolidated amended complaint in the US Federal Court in New York against the defendants as well as certain corporations 
that operate electronic trading platforms on which US Treasury securities are traded. The complaint purports to assert claims under US federal 
antitrust laws and state common law based on allegations that defendants (i) conspired to manipulate the US Treasury securities market and/or 
(ii) conspired to prevent the creation of certain platforms by boycotting or threatening to boycott such trading platforms. Defendants intend to 
move to dismiss the action.

In addition, certain plaintiffs have filed a related, direct action against BCI and certain other financial institutions that have served as primary 
dealers in US Treasury securities. This complaint alleges that defendants conspired to fix and manipulate the US Treasury securities market in 
violation of US federal antitrust laws, the CEA and state common law. 

In 2017, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, Barclays Services Limited, Barclays Capital Securities Limited and certain other financial institutions 
were named as defendants in a civil anti-trust complaint that alleges that the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix prices and restrain 
competition in the market for US Dollar-denominated Supranational, Sovereign and Agency bonds from 2005 through 2015. Defendants have 
moved to dismiss the action.

Certain governmental authorities are conducting investigations into activities relating to the trading of certain government securities in various 
markets and Barclays has been providing information to various authorities on an ongoing basis.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

American Depositary Shares 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and various former members of Barclays Bank PLC's Board of Directors have been named as defendants in 
a securities class action consolidated in the SDNY.

Background Information
The securities class action against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and various former members of Barclays Bank PLC's Board of Directors alleges 
misstatements and omissions in offering documents for certain American Depositary Shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC in April 2008 with an 
original face amount of approximately $2.5bn (the April 2008 Offering). The plaintiffs assert claims under the Securities Act of 1933, alleging 
misstatements and omissions concerning (amongst other things) Barclays Bank PLC's portfolio of mortgage-related (including US subprime-
related) securities, Barclays Bank PLC's exposure to mortgage and credit market risk, and Barclays Bank PLC's financial condition. The plaintiffs 
have not specifically alleged the amount of their damages. In June 2016, the SDNY certified the action as a class action. In September 2017, the 
SDNY granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs are appealing this decision.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

BDC Finance L.L.C. 
BDC Finance L.L.C. (BDC) has filed a complaint against Barclays Bank PLC alleging breach of contract in connection with a portfolio of total return 
swaps governed by an ISDA Master Agreement (collectively, the Agreement).

Background Information
In 2008, BDC filed a complaint in the NY Supreme Court alleging that Barclays Bank PLC breached the Agreement when it failed to transfer 
approximately $40m of alleged excess collateral in response to BDC's 2008 demand (Demand). 

BDC asserts that under the Agreement Barclays Bank PLC was not entitled to dispute the Demand before transferring the alleged excess collateral 
and that even if the Agreement entitled Barclays Bank PLC to dispute the Demand before making the transfer, Barclays Bank PLC failed to dispute 
the Demand. BDC demands damages totalling $298m plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. A trial on liability issues 
concluded in April 2017 and the court's decision is pending.

In 2011, BDC's investment advisor, BDCM Fund Adviser, L.L.C. and its parent company, Black Diamond Capital Holdings, L.L.C. also sued Barclays 
Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court for unspecified damages allegedly resulting from Barclays Bank PLC's conduct relating to the 
Agreement, asserting claims for violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act and tortious interference with business and prospective 
business relations. The parties agreed to stay this case.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. BDC has made claims against the Group totalling 
$298m plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. This amount does not necessarily reflect the Group's potential financial 
exposure if a ruling were to be made against it.

Civil actions in respect of the US Anti-Terrorism Act 
Civil complaints against Barclays Bank PLC and other banks allege engagement in a conspiracy and violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA).

Background Information
In 2015, an amended civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the EDNY by a group of approximately 250 plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays 
Bank PLC and a number of other banks engaged in a conspiracy and violated the ATA by facilitating US Dollar-denominated transactions for the 
Government of Iran and various Iranian banks, which in turn funded Hezbollah and other attacks that injured or killed the plaintiffs' family 
members. Plaintiffs seek to recover for pain, suffering and mental anguish pursuant to the provisions of the ATA, which allows for the tripling 

292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
of any proven damages and attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint in July 2016 (the Second Amended Complaint), which, 
among other things, added various plaintiffs, bringing the total number of plaintiffs to approximately 350. Defendants have moved to dismiss 
the Second Amended Complaint. In November 2017, a separate civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the SDNY by a group of 
approximately 160 plaintiffs, alleging claims under the ATA against Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other banks substantially similar to 
those in the Second Amended Complaint. Defendants intend to move to dismiss this complaint.

In November 2016, a civil complaint was filed alleging claims under the ATA against Barclays Bank PLC (and a number of other banks) 
substantially similar to those in the Second Amended Complaint. In October 2017, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the case, without prejudice.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Interest rate swap and credit default swap US civil actions 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, together with other financial institutions are defendants in interest rate swap and credit default swap 
antitrust civil actions in the SDNY.

Background Information
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, together with other financial institutions that act as market makers for interest rate swaps (IRS), Trade 
Web, and ICAP, are named as defendants in several antitrust class actions which were consolidated in the SDNY in 2016. The complaints allege 
defendants conspired to prevent the development of exchanges for IRS and demand unspecified money damages, treble damages and legal fees. 
Plaintiffs include certain swap execution facilities, as well as buy-side investors. The buy-side investors claim to represent a class that transacted in 
fixed-for-floating IRS with defendants in the US from 2008 to the present, including, for example, US retirement and pension funds, municipalities, 
university endowments, corporations, insurance companies and investment funds. The case is in discovery. In June 2017, a separate suit was filed 
in the US District Court in the SDNY against the same financial institution defendants in the IRS cases, including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, 
and BCI, claiming that certain conduct alleged in the IRS cases also caused plaintiff to suffer harm with respect to the Credit Default Swaps 
market. Defendants have moved to dismiss this action. 

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

CCUK Finance Limited and CIAC Corporation 
In May 2017, Barclays Bank PLC was served with a civil claim by CCUK Finance Limited and CIAC Corporation issued in the English High Court 
alleging breach of a contractual indemnity, fraudulent misrepresentation and breach of warranty arising out of the sale of a portfolio of credit 
cards in 2007. Barclays Bank PLC has filed a defence and counterclaim.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
The claim seeks damages of not less than £1bn plus interest and costs. The damages claimed do not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLC's 
potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made against it. It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact 
of the action described or what effect it might have upon operating results, cash flows or the Group's financial position in any particular period.

Portuguese Competition Authority investigation 
The Portuguese Competition Authority is investigating whether competition law was infringed by the exchange of information about retail credit 
products amongst 15 banks in Portugal, including the Group, over a period of 11 years with particular reference to mortgages, consumer lending 
and lending to small and medium enterprises. The Group is cooperating with the investigation.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described or what effect it might have upon operating 
results, cash flows or the Group's financial position in any particular period.

General
The Group is engaged in various other legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions. 
It is subject to legal proceedings by and against the Group which arise in the ordinary course of business from time to time, including (but not 
limited to) disputes in relation to contracts, securities, debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, competition, data protection, 
money laundering, financial crime, employment, environmental and other statutory and common law issues.

The Group is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and other proceedings by 
regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with (but not limited to) consumer protection measures, compliance with 
legislation and regulation, wholesale trading activity and other areas of banking and business activities in which the Group is or has been engaged. 
The Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities and keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these matters and 
others described in this note on an ongoing basis. 

At the present time, the Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these other matters to have a material adverse effect on its 
financial position. However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters and the matters specifically described in this note, there can be 
no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to the Group's results of operations or cash flow for a particular 
period, depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of income otherwise reported 
for the reporting period.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 293

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
Notes to the financial statements

The notes included in this section focus on the Group's loan capital and shareholders' equity including issued share capital, retained earnings, 
other equity balances and interests of minority shareholders in our subsidiary entities (non-controlling interests). For more information on 
capital management and how the Group maintains sufficient capital to meet our regulatory requirements refer to page 130.

30 Subordinated liabilities

Accounting for subordinated debt
Subordinated debt is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method under IAS 39.

2017
£m

2016
£m

Opening balance as at 1 January 23,383 21,467
Issuances 3,041 1,457
Redemptions (1,378) (1,143)
Other (1,220) 1,602
Total subordinated liabilities 23,826 23,383

Issuances totalling £3,041m made up of $2,000m 4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (£1,547m), €1,500m 2% Fixed Rate 
Subordinated Callable Notes (£1,384m) and SGD 200m 3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes (£110m). Redemptions totalling 
£1,378m include £133m 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes, $1,556m 6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (£1,151m), $117m 7.434% Step-up 
Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments (£87m) and instruments issued by other subsidiaries (£7m). Other movements include a decrease 
of £1,220m largely due to the depreciation of period end USD against GBP.

Subordinated liabilities include accrued interest and comprise undated and dated loan capital as follows:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Undated subordinated liabilities 4,191 4,495
Dated subordinated liabilities 19,635 18,888
Total subordinated liabilities 23,826 23,383

None of the Group's loan capital is secured.

Undated subordinated liabilities

Initial call date
2017

£m
2016

£m

Barclays Bank PLC issued
Tier One Notes (TONs)
6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes 2032 16 17
6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes (USD 179m) 2032 197 232
Reserve Capital Instruments (RCIs)
7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments (USD 117m) 2017 – 100
6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 36 37
14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 3,142 3,124
5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2036 52 54
Undated Notes
6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes 2017 – 140
7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes (USD 99m) 2018 74 84
8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes 2018 144 148
7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2020 182 193
6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2027 43 45
Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes (USD 38m) Any interest payment date 28 31
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 Any interest payment date 21 21
Bonds
9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc) 2021 87 91
9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds At any time 45 47
Loans
5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 8,000m) 2028 51 54
5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 12,000m) 2028 73 77
Total undated subordinated liabilities 4,191 4,495



294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
30 Subordinated liabilities continued
Undated loan capital
Undated loan capital is issued by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the development and expansion of the business and to strengthen the capital 
bases. The principal terms of the undated loan capital are described below:

Subordination
All undated loan capital ranks behind the claims against the bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of 
dated loan capital in the following order: Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes; other issues of Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans ranking pari passu 
with each other; followed by TONs and RCIs ranking pari passu with each other.

Interest
All undated loan capital bears a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date, with the exception of the 9% Bonds which are fixed for the life of 
the issue, and the Junior and Series 3 Undated Notes which are floating rate.

After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds will bear interest at 
rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates. All other undated loan capital except the two floating rate Undated 
Notes will bear interest, and the two floating rate Undated Notes currently bear interest, at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London 
interbank rates.

Payment of interest
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans excluding the 7.7% Undated Notes, 8.25% 
Undated Notes and 9.25% Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC 
or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank. The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual 
Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 month interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital. 
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances. During the year, 
the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.

No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Notes and 8.25% Undated Notes. Until such time as any deferred 
interest has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary 
shares, preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs. Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of: 1) the date 
of redemption of the RCIs, 2) the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment, and 
3) in respect of the 14% RCIs only, substitution. While such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, 
subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-
compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the PRA. Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a 
redemption of the TONs. Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may 1) 
declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or preference shares, or make payments of 
interest in respect of the Bank's Reserve Capital Instruments and 2) certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their 
respective share capital and certain other securities also apply. 

Repayment
All undated loan capital is repayable at the option of the Bank, generally in whole, at the initial call date and on any subsequent coupon or interest 
payment date or in the case of the 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date. 
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank in whole in the event of certain changes in the tax treatment 
of the notes, either at any time, or on an interest payment date. There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory 
interest. Any repayments require the prior approval of the PRA.

Other
All issues of undated subordinated liabilities are non-convertible.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 295

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
Notes to the financial statements

30 Subordinated liabilities continued
Dated subordinated liabilities

Initial 
call date

Maturity 
date

2017
£m

2016
£m

Barclays PLC issued
2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (EUR 1,250m) 2020 2025 1,119 1,084
2% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (EUR 1,500m) 2023 2028 1,325 –
4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,250m) 2024 947 1,054
3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes (SGD 200m) 2025 2030 111 –
5.20% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 2,050m) 2026 1,439 1,590
4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 2,000m) 2027 2028 1,471 –
Barclays Bank PLC issued
6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,556m) 2017 – 1,316
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 40m) 2018 36 34
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,750m) 2018 1,643 1,590
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 100m) 2018 93 90
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 135m) 2018 124 120
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 2023 533 548
7.75% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 1,000m) 2018 2023 747 822
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 50m) 2019 44 42
5.14% Lower Tier 2 Notes (USD 1,094m) 2020 841 956
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,500m) 2021 1,484 1,444
9.5% Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc) 2021 273 286
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 100m) 2021 88 85
10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 2,261 2,345
10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,521m) 2021 1,118 1,285
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2022 44 43
6.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,000m) 2022 1,043 1,042
7.625% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 3,000m) 2022 2,163 2,390
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2023 44 43
5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 366 384
5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan (JPY 15,000m) 2027 97 103
6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 62 64
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 68m) 2040 60 58
Issuances by other subsidiaries 2018–2019 59 70
Total dated subordinated liabilities 19,635 18,888

Dated loan capital
Dated loan capital is issued by the Company, the Bank and respective subsidiaries for the development and expansion of their business and 
to strengthen their respective capital bases. The principal terms of the dated loan capital are described below:

Subordination
Dated loan capital issued by the Company ranks behind the claims against the Company of unsecured unsubordinated creditors but before the 
claims of the holders of its equity.

All dated loan capital issued by the Bank ranks behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors 
but before the claims of the undated loan capital and the holders of its equity. The dated loan capital issued by other subsidiaries is similarly 
subordinated. 

Interest
Interest on the Floating Rate Notes is fixed periodically in advance, based on the related interbank or local central bank rates. 

Interest on the 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes, 2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes, 4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes, 
2% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes and the 3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes are fixed until the call date. After the 
respective call dates, in the event that they are not redeemed, the interest rates will be reset and fixed until maturity based on a market rate.

Repayment
Those Notes with a call date are repayable at the option of the issuer, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole 
or in part, and some only in whole. The remaining dated loan capital outstanding at 31 December 2017 is redeemable only on maturity, subject 
in particular cases to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law, or to certain changes in legislation 
or regulations. 

Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of the Company and the Bank, the prior approval of the PRA, or in the case of the overseas 
issues, the approval of the local regulator for that jurisdiction and of the PRA in certain circumstances.

There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.

296 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
30 Subordinated liabilities continued
Other
The 7.625% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically transferred from investors to Barclays PLC (or another entity within the Group) for 
nil consideration in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls below 7.0%.

The 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically written-down and investors will lose their entire investment in the notes in the event 
the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls below 7.0%.

31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid

Number of
 shares

m

Ordinary 
shares 

£m

Share 
premium

£m

Total share 
capital and 

share 
premium

£m

Other
equity 

instruments
£m

As at 1 January 2017 16,963 4,241 17,601 21,842 6,449
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 46 12 74 86 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 51 12 105 117 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 2,490
Other movements – – – – 2
As at 31 December 2017 17,060 4,265 17,780 22,045 8,941

As at 1 January 2016 16,805 4,201 17,385 21,586 5,305
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 116 30 158 188 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 42 10 58 68 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 1,132
Other movements – – – – 12
As at 31 December 2016 16,963 4,241 17,601 21,842 6,449

Called up share capital
Called up share capital comprises 17,060m (2016: 16,963m) ordinary shares of 25p each. 

Share repurchase
At the 2017 AGM on 10 May 2017, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase up to an aggregate of 1,696m of its ordinary shares of 25p. 
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2018 or the close of business on 30 June 2018, whichever is the earlier. No share repurchases 
were made during either 2017 or 2016. 

Other equity instruments
Other equity instruments of £8,941m (2016: £6,449m) include AT1 securities issued by Barclays PLC. In 2017, there were two issuances of Fixed 
Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (2016: one issuance), with principal amounts totalling £2.5bn (2016: 
£1.1bn).

The AT1 securities are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity and are structured to qualify as AT1 instruments under CRD IV.

The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below:
■■ AT1 securities rank behind the claims against Barclays PLC of 1) unsubordinated creditors; 2) claims which are expressed to be subordinated 

to the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Barclays PLC but not further or otherwise; or 3) claims which are, or are expressed to be, junior to 
the claims of other creditors of Barclays PLC, whether subordinated or unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, 
pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the AT1 securities.

■■ AT1 securities bear a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date. After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the AT1 
securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates.

■■ Interest on the AT1 securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of Barclays PLC, and Barclays PLC has sole and absolute 
discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel (in whole or in part) any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest 
payment date.

■■ AT1 securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after the 
initial call date. In addition, the AT1 securities are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole in the event of certain changes in the tax 
or regulatory treatment of the securities. Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.

All AT1 securities will be converted into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, at a pre-determined price, should the fully loaded CET1 ratio of the 
Barclays PLC Group fall below 7.0%.

32 Reserves 
Currency translation reserve 
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Group's net investment in foreign 
operations, net of the effects of hedging.

Available for sale reserve
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition. 

Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the 
income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 297

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
Notes to the financial statements

32 Reserves continued
Own credit reserve
As a result of the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit on financial liabilities designated at fair 
value through profit and loss which was previously recorded in the income statement is now recognised within other comprehensive income. 
Amounts in the own credit reserve is not recycled to profit or loss in future periods. 

Other reserves and treasury shares
Other reserves relate to redeemed ordinary and preference shares issued by the Group. 

Treasury shares relate to Barclays PLC shares held in relation to the Group's various share schemes. These schemes are described in Note 34. 
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders' equity within other reserves. A transfer is made to retained earnings in line with the vesting 
of treasury shares held for the purposes of share-based payments.

2017
£m

2016
£m

Currency translation reserve 3,054 3,051
Available for sale reserve 364 (74)
Cash flow hedging reserve 1,161 2,105
Own credit reservea (179) – 
Other reserves and treasury shares 983 969
Total 5,383 6,051

Note
a  As at 31 December 2017, the amount of own credit recognised in the Group's other comprehensive income was a debit balance of £179m. Upon adoption of IFRS 9, an opening 

debit balance of £175m was recognised, with a further £4m loss (net of tax) recorded during 2017. 

33 Non-controlling interests
Profit attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Equity attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Dividends paid to 

non-controlling interest
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Barclays Bank PLC issued:
– Preference shares 242 340 1,838 2,698 242 340
– Upper Tier 2 instruments 3 3 272 272 – – 
Barclays Africa Group Limited 140 402 – 3,507 173 235
Other non-controlling interests 4 3 1 15 – – 
Total 389 748 2,111 6,492 415 575

Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays PLC holds 100% of the voting rights of Barclays Bank PLC. As at 31 December 2017, Barclays Bank PLC has in issue preference shares and 
Upper Tier 2 instruments, representing 11% (2016: 11%) of its equity. Preference share dividends and redemption are typically at the discretion of 
Barclays Bank PLC. The payment of Upper Tier 2 instrument coupons and principal are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC, except for 
coupon payments that become compulsory where Barclays PLC has declared or paid a dividend on ordinary shares in the preceding six-month 
period. Preference share and Upper Tier 2 instrument holders typically only have rights to redeem in the event of insolvency.

Instrument
2017

£m
2016

£m

Preference Shares:
6.00% non-cumulative callable preference shares – 203
6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares 318 318
4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares 211 211
7.1% non-cumulative callable preference shares – 657
8.125% non-cumulative callable preference shares 1,309 1,309
Total Barclays Bank PLC Preference Shares 1,838 2,698
Barclays Africa Group Limited – 277
Total 1,838 2,975

Upper Tier 2 Instruments:
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 1 93 93
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 2 179 179
Total Upper Tier 2 Instruments 272 272

Protective rights of non-controlling interests
Barclays Africa Group Limited
Barclays' shareholding in BAGL has reduced from 50.1% in 2016 to 14.9% in 2017. Following the disposal BAGL is not considered as a subsidiary 
of the Group and has been deconsolidated for accounting purposes and is accounted for as an available for sale asset.

Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays Bank PLC also has in issue preference shares which are non-controlling interests to the Group. Under the terms of these instruments, 
Barclays PLC may not pay dividends on ordinary shares until a dividend is next paid on these instruments or the instruments are redeemed or 
purchased by Barclays Bank PLC. There are no restrictions on Barclays Bank PLC's ability to remit capital to the Parent as a result of these issued 
instruments.

298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on the costs and commitments associated with employing our staff.

34 Share-based payments 

Accounting for share-based payments
The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in accounting for employee remuneration in the form of shares. 

Employee incentives include awards in the form of shares and share options, as well as offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares 
on favourable terms. The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in the income 
statement over the period that employees provide services. The overall cost of the award is calculated using the number of shares and options 
expected to vest and the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant. 

The number of shares and options expected to vest takes into account the likelihood that performance and service conditions included in 
the terms of the awards will be met. Failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in an acceleration of 
recognition of the cost of the employee services.

The fair value of shares is the market price ruling on the grant date, in some cases adjusted to reflect restrictions on transferability. The fair 
value of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate the numbers of shares likely to vest. These take into account 
the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the 
option and other relevant factors. Market conditions that must be met in order for the award to vest are also reflected in the fair value of the 
award, as are any other non-vesting conditions – such as continuing to make payments into a share-based savings scheme. 

The charge for the year arising from share-based payment schemes was as follows:

Charge for the year
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Share Value Plan 153 473 442
Deferred Share Value Plan 166 – –
Others 186 192 86
Total equity settled 505 665 528
Cash settled 3 1 4
Total share-based payments 508 666 532

The terms of the main current plans are as follows:

Share Value Plan (SVP)
The SVP was introduced in March 2010 and approved by shareholders (for executive Director participation and use of new issue shares) at 
the AGM in April 2011. SVP awards are granted to participants in the form of a conditional right to receive Barclays PLC shares or provisional 
allocations of Barclays PLC shares which vest or are considered for release over a period of three, five or seven years. Participants do not pay 
to receive an award or to receive a release of shares. The grantor may also make a dividend equivalent payment to participants on release of 
a SVP award. SVP awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes. All awards are subject to potential forfeiture in certain 
leaver scenarios.

Deferred Share Value Plan (DSVP)
The DSVP was introduced in February 2017. The terms of the DSVP are materially the same as the terms of the SVP as described above, save that 
executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the DSVP and the DSVP operates over market purchase shares only. The accounting policies 
for employee benefits are included in Note 8.

Other schemes 
In addition to the SVP and DSVP, the Group operates a number of other schemes including schemes operated by, and settled in, the shares 
of subsidiary undertakings, none of which is individually or in aggregate material in relation to the charge for the year or the dilutive effect 
of outstanding share options. Included within other schemes are Sharesave (both UK and overseas), Sharepurchase (both UK and overseas), 
the Barclays' Long Term Incentive Plan, the Share Incentive Award and the Executive Share Award Scheme.

Share option and award plans
The weighted average fair value per award granted, weighted average share price at the date of exercise/release of shares during the year, 
weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options and awards outstanding (including those exercisable) at the balance sheet 
date are as follows:

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 299

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

Employee benefits
Notes to the financial statements

<Page End><Page Start>
Employee benefits
Notes to the financial statements

34 Share-based payments continued
2017 2016

Weighted
 average fair

 value per
 award 

granted 
in year

£

Weighted
 average 

share price 
at exercise/

release 
during year

£

Weighted
average

remaining
contractual

life
years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)

Weighted
 average fair

 value per
 award 

granted 
in year

£

Weighted
 average 

share price 
at exercise/

release 
during year

£

Weighted
average

remaining
contractual

life
years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)

SVPa,b 2.30 2.29 1 191,610 1.66 1.66 1  406,016
DSVPa,b 2.26 2.06 1 125,399 – – – –
Othersa 0.41-2.30 1.99-2.30 0–3 210,160 0.61-1.67 1.65-1.88 0–3  205,129

SVP and DSVP are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant. Consequently, the fair 
value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.

Movements in options and awards
The movement in the number of options and awards for the major schemes and the weighted average exercise price of options was:

SVPa,b DSVPa,b Othersa,c

Number (000s) Number (000s) Number (000s)
Weighted average

ex. price (£)
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016

Outstanding at beginning of  
year/acquisition date 406,016 386,470 – – 205,129 166,975 1.38 1.75
Granted in the year 943 229,371 132,316 – 118,222 154,069 1.66 1.20
Exercised/released in the year  (200,350)  (191,623)  (2,275) –  (90,324)  (60,912) 1.52 1.39
Less: forfeited in the year  (14,999)  (18,202)  (4,642) –  (17,733)  (47,342) 1.42 1.95
Less: expired in the year – – – –  (5,134)  (7,661) 2.03 1.83
Outstanding at end of year 191,610 406,016 125,399 – 210,160 205,129 1.41 1.38
Of which exercisable: 18 – – – 24,569 24,435 1.59 1.78

Notes
a Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares. 
b Nil cost award and therefore the weighted average exercise price was nil.
c The number of awards within Others at the end of the year principally relates to Sharesave (number of awards exercisable at end of year was 10,121,109). The weighted average 

exercise price relates to Sharesave.

Certain of the Group's share option plans enable certain Directors and employees to subscribe for new ordinary shares of Barclays PLC. For 
accounting for treasury shares refer to Note 32.

There were no significant modifications to the share-based payments arrangements in 2017 and 2016.

As at 31 December 2017, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payments transactions was £2m (2016: £nil).

Holdings of Barclays PLC shares
Various employee benefit trusts established by the Group hold shares in Barclays PLC to meet obligations under the Barclays share-based payment 
schemes. The total number of Barclays shares held in these employee benefit trusts at 31 December 2017 was 9.9 million (2016: 6.6 million). 
Dividend rights have been waived on all these shares. The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year end share price of 
£2.03 (2016: £2.23) was £20.1m (2016: £14.7m).

300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
35 Pensions and post-retirement benefits

Accounting for pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of pension schemes and post-employment benefit schemes.

Defined contribution schemes – the Group recognises contributions due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement. 
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.

Defined benefit schemes – the Group recognises its obligations to members of each scheme at the period end, less the fair value of the scheme 
assets after applying the asset ceiling test. The Group will keep the developments on the proposed amendments to IFRIC 14 under review. 

Each scheme's obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are stated at fair value as at the period end.

Changes in pension scheme liabilities or assets (remeasurements) that do not arise from regular pension cost, net interest on net defined 
benefit liabilities or assets, past service costs, settlements or contributions to the scheme, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Remeasurements comprise experience adjustments (differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred), 
the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, return on scheme assets (excluding amounts included in the interest on the assets) and any 
changes in the effect of the asset ceiling restriction (excluding amounts included in the interest on the restriction).

Post-employment benefit schemes – the cost of providing healthcare benefits to retired employees is accrued as a liability in the financial 
statements over the period that the employees provide services to the Group, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension 
schemes.

Pension schemes 
UK Retirement Fund (UKRF)
The UKRF is the Group's main scheme, representing 96% of the Group's total retirement benefit obligations. The UKRF was closed to new entrants 
on 1 October 2012, and comprises 10 sections, the two most significant of which are: 
■■ Afterwork, which comprises a contributory cash balance defined benefit element, and a voluntary defined contribution element. The cash 

balance element is accrued each year and revalued until Normal Retirement Age in line with the increase in Retail Price Index (RPI) (up to a 
maximum of 5% p.a.). An increase of up to 2% a year may also be added at Barclays' discretion. Between 1 October 2003 and 1 October 2012 
the majority of new UK employees (except for the employees of the investment banking business within Barclays International) were eligible to 
join this section. The costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits for Afterwork members are borne by the UKRF. The main risks 
that Barclays runs in relation to Afterwork are limited although additional contributions are required if pre-retirement investment returns are not 
sufficient to provide for the benefits.

■■ The 1964 Pension Scheme. Most employees recruited before July 1997 built up benefits in this non-contributory defined benefit scheme in 
respect of service up to 31 March 2010. Pensions were calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary. From 1 April 2010, members 
became eligible to accrue future service benefits in either Afterwork or the Pension Investment Plan (PIP), a historic defined contribution section 
which is now closed to future contributions. The risks that Barclays runs in relation to the 1964 section are typical of final salary pension 
schemes, principally that investment returns fall short of expectations, that inflation exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer than 
expected.

Barclays Pension Savings Plan (BPSP)
From 1 October 2012, a new UK pension scheme, the BPSP, was established to satisfy Auto Enrolment legislation. The BPSP is a defined 
contribution scheme (Group Personal Pension) providing benefits for all new Barclays UK hires from 1 October 2012, employees of the investment 
banking business within Barclays International who were in PIP as at 1 October 2012, and also all UK employees who were not members of a 
pension scheme at that date. As a defined contribution scheme, BPSP is not subject to the same investment return, inflation or life expectancy 
risks for Barclays that defined benefit schemes are. Members' benefits reflect contributions paid and the level of investment returns achieved. 

Other 
Apart from the UKRF and the BPSP, Barclays operates a number of smaller pension and long-term employee benefits and post-retirement 
healthcare plans globally, the largest of which are the US defined benefit schemes. Many of the schemes are funded, with assets backing the 
obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts. Others are operated on an unfunded basis. The benefits provided, the approach to 
funding, and the legal basis of the schemes, reflect local environments. 

Governance 
The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed 
and Rules and all relevant legislation. The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited, a private limited company and a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC. The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the assets of the 
Group.

The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship with 
Barclays (and who are not members of the UKRF), plus three Member Nominated Directors selected from eligible active staff and pensioner 
members who apply for the role.

The BPSP is a Group Personal Pension arrangement which operates as a collection of personal pension plans. Each personal pension plan 
is a direct contract between the employee and the BPSP provider (Legal & General Assurance Society Limited), and is regulated by the FCA.

Similar principles of pension governance apply to the Group's other pension schemes, depending on local legislation.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 301

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Employee benefits
Notes to the financial statements

35 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
Amounts recognised
The following tables include amounts recognised in the income statement and an analysis of benefit obligations and scheme assets for all Group 
defined benefit schemes. The net position is reconciled to the assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. The tables include funded 
and unfunded post-retirement benefits. 

Income statement charge
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Current service cost 265 243 255
Net finance cost (12) (32) 41
Past service cost (3) – (432)
Other movements – 2 1
Total 250 213 (135)

Past service costs includes a £3m (2016: £nil; 2015: £429m) gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability.

Balance sheet reconciliation 2017 2016

Total
£m

Of which
 relates to

 UKRF
£m

Total
£m

Of which
 relates to

 UKRF
£m

Benefit obligation at beginning of the year (33,033) (31,847) (28,279) (26,027)
Current service cost (265) (245) (243) (220)
Interest costs on scheme liabilities (843) (810) (1,016) (980)
Past service cost 3 – – –
Remeasurement loss – financial (387) (330) (7,214) (7,170)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – demographic (228) (240) 413 390
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – experience (612) (614) 525 490
Employee contributions (5) (1) (4) (1)
Benefits paid 4,970 4,927 1,852 1,800
Exchange and other movements 132 – 933 (129)
Benefit obligation at end of the year (30,268) (29,160) (33,033) (31,847)
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of the year 32,657 31,820 28,752 26,829
Interest income on scheme assets 855 831 1,048 1,023
Employer contribution 1,152 1,124 720 634
Remeasurement – return on scheme assets greater than discount rate 1,333 1,263 5,009 5,002
Employee contributions 5 1 4 1
Benefits paid (4,970) (4,927) (1,852) (1,800)
Exchange and other movements (110) – (1,024) 131
Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 30,922 30,112 32,657 31,820
Net surplus/(deficit) 654 952 (376) (27)
Retirement benefit assets 966 952 14 –
Retirement benefit liabilities (312) – (390) (27)
Net retirement benefit assets/(liabilities) 654 952 (376) (27)

Included within the benefit obligation was £895m (2016: £979m) relating to overseas pensions and £213m (2016: £207m) relating to other 
post-employment benefits. 

As at 31 December 2017, the UKRF's scheme assets were in surplus versus IAS 19 obligations by £952m (2016: deficit of £27m). The movement 
for the UKRF is mainly due to payment of deficit contributions, higher than assumed asset returns, updated mortality assumptions, and lower 
expected future price inflation, offset by a decrease in discount rate, transfers out of the scheme, and the introduction of an assumption for future 
transfers out. Of the £4,927m (2016: £1,800m) UKRF benefits paid out, £4,151m (2016: £1,029m) related to transfers out of the fund.

Where a scheme's assets exceed its obligation, an asset is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution 
holidays or refunds of contributions (the asset ceiling). In the case of the UKRF the asset ceiling is not applied as, in certain specified circumstances 
such as wind-up, Barclays expects to be able to recover any surplus. The Trustee does not have a substantive right to augment benefits, nor do 
they have the right to wind up the plan except in the dissolution of the Group or termination of contributions by the Group. The application of the 
asset ceiling to other plans is considered on an individual plan basis.



302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
35 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Actuarial valuation of the schemes' obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions. Below is a summary of the main financial and 
demographic assumptions adopted for the UKRF.

Key UKRF financial assumptions
2017

% p.a.
2016

% p.a.

Discount rate 2.46 2.62
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.22 3.35

The UKRF discount rate assumption for 2017 was based on a variant of the standard Willis Towers Watson RATE Link model. This variant includes 
all bonds rated AA by at least one of the four major ratings agencies, and assumes that yields after year 30 are flat. The RPI inflation assumption 
for 2017 was set by reference to the Bank of England's implied inflation spot curve, assuming the spot curve remains flat after 30 years. The 
inflation assumption incorporates a deduction of 20 basis points as an allowance for an inflation risk premium. The methodology used to derive 
the discount rate and price inflation assumptions is consistent with that used at the prior year end, except the inflation spot curve was held flat 
after 25 years at 2016.

The UKRF's post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on a best estimate assumption derived from an analysis in 2016 of Barclays own 
post-retirement mortality experience, and taking account of recent evidence from published mortality surveys. An allowance has been made for 
future mortality improvements based on the 2016 core projection model published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau subject to 
a long-term trend of 1.25% per annum in future improvements. The methodology used is consistent with the prior year end, except that the 
2015 core projection model was used at 2016. The table below shows how the assumed life expectancy at 60, for members of the UKRF, has 
varied over the past three years:

Assumed life expectancy 2017 2016 2015
Life expectancy at 60 for current pensioners (years)
– Males 27.8 27.9 28.4
– Females 29.4 29.7 30.0
Life expectancy at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 (years)
– Males 29.3 29.7 30.2
– Females 31.0 31.7 32.0

An assumption for future transfers out has been introduced at 2017, increasing the benefit obligation by about 2%, as numbers of deferred 
members transferring out were at higher levels in 2017 than previously experienced. The assumption introduced is that 20% of the benefit 
obligations in respect of deferred members will transfer out during 2018, 15% in 2019, 10% in 2020, 5% in 2021, tapering down to 0% from 
2022 onwards. The assumption used at 2016 was nil transfers out.

Sensitivity analysis on actuarial assumptions
The sensitivity analysis has been calculated by valuing the UKRF liabilities using the amended assumptions shown in the table below and keeping 
the remaining assumptions the same as disclosed in the table above, except in the case of the inflation sensitivity where other assumptions that 
depend on assumed inflation have also been amended correspondingly. The difference between the recalculated liability figure and that stated 
in the balance sheet reconciliation table above is the figure shown. The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the defined 
benefit obligation to key assumptions should not be interpreted as Barclays expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements 
happening.

Change in key assumptions
2017 2016

(Decrease)/
 Increase in

 UKRF 
defined
 benefit

 obligation
£bn

(Decrease)/
 Increase in

 UKRF 
defined
 benefit

 obligation
£bn

Discount rate
0.5% p.a. increase (2.4) (2.8)
0.25% p.a. increase (1.2) (1.4)
0.25% p.a. decrease 1.3 1.5
0.5% p.a. decrease 2.8 3.2
Assumed RPI
0.5% p.a. increase 1.6 1.9
0.25% p.a. increase 0.8 0.9
0.25% p.a. decrease (0.7) (0.9)
0.5% p.a. decrease (1.5) (2.0)
Life expectancy at 60
One year increase 1.0 1.1
One year decrease (1.0) (1.1)

The weighted average duration of the benefit payments reflected in the defined benefit obligation for the UKRF is 20 years. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 303

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Employee benefits
Notes to the financial statements

35 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
Assets
A long-term investment strategy has been set for the UKRF, with its asset allocation comprising a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other 
appropriate assets. This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be 
more volatile than others. The long-term investment strategy ensures, among other aims, that investments are adequately diversified. Asset 
managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term investment strategy within control ranges agreed with 
the Trustee from time to time.

The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely 
to liabilities. The value of assets shown reflects the assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a fair value basis. 

The value of the assets of the schemes and their percentage in relation to total scheme assets were as follows:

Analysis of scheme assets
Total Of which relates to UKRF

Value
£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%
Value

£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%

As at 31 December 2017
Equities – quoted 4,377 14.1 4,151 13.8
Equities – non-quoted 2,001 6.5 2,001 6.6
Bonds – fixed governmenta 2,433 7.9 2,184 7.3
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 13,089 42.3 13,078 43.4
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,195 16.8 4,999 16.6
Property – commercialb 1,911 6.2 1,902 6.3
Derivativesb 816 2.6 816 2.7
Otherc 1,100 3.6 981 3.3
Fair value of scheme assets 30,922 100.0 30,112 100.0

As at 31 December 2016
Equities – quoted 8,123 24.9 7,840 24.6
Equities – non-quoted 2,043 6.3 2,042 6.4
Bonds – fixed governmenta 1,330 4.1 1,072 3.4
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 13,173 40.3 13,165 41.4
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,222 16.0 5,054 15.9
Property – commercialb 1,630 5.0 1,622 5.1
Derivativesb 870 2.7 870 2.7
Otherc 266 0.7 155 0.5
Fair value of scheme assets 32,657 100.0 31,820 100.0

Notes
a Assets held are predominantly quoted.
b Assets held are predominantly non-quoted.
c Assets held are predominantly in Infrastructure Funds. 

Included within the fair value of scheme assets were: £0.1m (2016: £0.2m) relating to shares in Barclays PLC and £0.6m (2016: £0.1m) relating 
to bonds issued by Barclays PLC. The UKRF also invests in pooled investment vehicles which may hold shares or debt issued by Barclays PLC.

The UKRF scheme assets also include £15m (2016: £32m) relating to UK private equity investments and £1,986m (2016: £2,009m) relating 
to overseas private equity investments. These are disclosed above within Equities – non-quoted.

Approximately 48% of the UKRF assets are invested in liability-driven investment strategies; primarily UK gilts as well as interest rate and inflation 
swaps. These are used to better match the assets to its liabilities. The swaps are used to reduce the scheme's inflation and duration risks against 
its liabilities.

Funding
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the UKRF funding position in addition to the full triennial actuarial valuation. The latest annual 
update was carried out as at 30 September 2017 and showed a deficit of £4.8bn and a funding level of 86.8%. 

The last triennial actuarial valuation of the UKRF had an effective date of 30 September 2016 and was completed in July 2017. This valuation 
showed a funding deficit of £7.9bn and a funding level of 81.5%, versus £6.0bn funding deficit at the 30 September 2015 update.

The improvement in funding position between 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2017 was largely due to payment of deficit contributions, 
higher than assumed asset returns, higher Government bond yields, and transfers out of the scheme.

304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
35 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
At the 2016 triennial actuarial valuation the Group and UKRF Trustee agreed a revised scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding 
principles, schedule of contributions, a recovery plan to seek to eliminate the deficit relative to the funding target and some additional support 
measures. The agreement with the UKRF Trustee also takes into account the changes to the Group structure that will be implemented as a result 
of ring-fencinga. Barclays Bank PLC will remain as the principal employer of the UKRF. 

The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 assumptions were a different approach to setting the discount rate and a more conservative 
longevity assumption for funding. 

The deficit reduction contributions agreed with the UKRF Trustee as part of the 30 September 2016 valuation recovery plan are shown alongside 
the deficit recovery contributions agreed in 2014 for the prior 30 September 2013 valuation.

Year

Deficit
 contributions

 30 September 2016
valuation

£m

Deficit
 contributions

 30 September 2013
valuation

£m
2017 740 1,240b

2018 500 740
2019 500 740
2020 500 740
2021 1,000 240b

2022 to 2026 1,000 each year –

Note
a Refer to page 204 of the Annual Report for further information on structural reform (unaudited).
b The 2017 deficit contributions from the 30 September 2013 valuation included up to £500m payable if the deficit in 2017 exceeded a certain level. Of this £500m, £250m was paid 

during the first half of 2017. Following the agreement of the 30 September 2016 valuation recovery plan, in July 2017, the remaining payments were no longer required.

The deficit reduction contributions are in addition to the regular contributions to meet the Group's share of the cost of benefits accruing over each 
year. The next funding valuation of the UKRF is due to be completed in 2020 with an effective date of 30 September 2019.

Other support measures agreed at the same time as the valuation
Collateral – The UKRF Trustee and Barclays Bank PLC have entered into an arrangement whereby a collateral pool has been put in place to provide 
security for the UKRF funding deficit as it increases or decreases over time, and associated deficit recovery contributions. The collateral pool is 
currently made up of government securities and high-quality securitisations of credit cards, mortgages and corporate loans. Agreement has been 
made with the Trustee to increase the proportion of the deficit covered from 88.5% to 100% effective from 26 March 2018 with an overall cap 
remaining of £9.0bn, at which date the collateral pool will consist of government securities only (the Trustee and Barclays Bank PLC may agree 
alternative eligible collateral in the future). The arrangement provides the UKRF Trustee with dedicated access to the pool of assets in the event 
of Barclays Bank PLC not paying a deficit reduction contribution to the UKRF or in the event of Barclays Bank PLC's insolvency. These assets are 
included within Note 40. 

Support from Barclays PLC – In the event of Barclays Bank PLC not paying a deficit reduction contribution payment required under the 2016 
valuation recovery plan by a specified pre-payment date, Barclays PLC has entered into an arrangement whereby it will be required to use, in first 
priority, dividends received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (if any) to invest the proceeds in Barclays Bank PLC (up to the maximum amount of the 
deficit reduction contribution unpaid by Barclays Bank PLC). The proceeds of the investment will be used to discharge Barclays Bank PLC's unpaid 
deficit reduction contribution.

Participation – As permitted under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Banking Reform) (Pensions) Regulations 2015, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC is a participating employer in the UKRF and will remain so during a transitional phase until September 2025 as set out in a deed of participation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC will make contributions for the future service of its employees who are currently Afterwork members and, in the event of 
Barclays Bank PLC's insolvency during this period provision has been made to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to become the principal employer of 
the UKRF. Barclays Bank PLC's Section 75 debt would be triggered by the insolvency (the debt would be calculated after allowing for the payment 
to the UKRF of the collateral above).

Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows:

Contributions paid
£m

2017 1,124
2016 634
2015 586

Included within the Group's contributions paid were £153m (2016: £112m; 2015: £nil) Section 75 contributions.

The Group's expected contribution to the UKRF in respect of defined benefits in 2018 is £716m (2017: £1,585m). In addition, the expected 
contributions to UK defined contribution schemes in 2018 is £35m (2017: £36m) to the UKRF and £146m (2017: £124m) to the BPSP.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 305

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Scope of consolidation
Notes to the financial statements

The section presents information on the Group's investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and its interests in structured 
entities. Detail is also given on securitisation transactions the Group has entered into and arrangements that are held off-balance sheet.

36 Principal subsidiaries

Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of 
Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control. Under IFRS 10, this is when the Group is exposed 
or has rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.

The Group reassesses whether it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there have been changes to its power, its rights 
to variable returns or its ability to use its power to affect the amount of its returns.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for 
the purposes of the consolidation. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after 
control has been obtained and they do not result in loss of control.

The significant judgements used in applying this policy are set out below.

Accounting for investment in subsidiaries
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment.

Principal subsidiaries for the Group are set out below. This includes those subsidiaries that are most significant in the context of the Group's 
business, results or financial position.

Company name
Principal place of business 
or incorporation Nature of business

Percentage of
 voting rights held

%

Non-controlling
 interests –

 proportion of 
ownership 

interests
%

Non-controlling
 interests –

 proportion of 
voting interests

%
Barclays Bank PLC England Banking, holding Company 100 11 –
Barclays Capital Securities Limited England Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Securities Japan Limited Japan Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Capital Inc United States Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Services Limited England Service Company 100 – –
Barclays Bank Delaware United States Credit card issuer 100 – –

The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries. 

Ownership interests are in some cases different to voting interests due to the existence of non-voting equity interests, such as preference shares. 
Refer to Note 33 for more information. 

Barclays Africa Group Limited was considered a principal subsidiary in 2016. During 2017 Barclays reduced its shareholding in BAGL. This resulted 
in the deconsolidation of BAGL from the Group as of 1 June 2017, with the residual holding recognised as an available for sale investment.

Determining whether the Group has control of an entity is generally straightforward based on ownership of the majority of the voting capital. 
However, in certain instances, this determination will involve judgement, particularly in the case of structured entities where voting rights are often 
not the determining factor in decisions over the relevant activities. This judgement may involve assessing the purpose and design of the entity. 
It will also often be necessary to consider whether the Group, or another involved party with power over the relevant activities, is acting as 
a principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others. 

There is also often considerable judgement involved in the ongoing assessment of control over structured entities. In this regard, where market 
conditions have deteriorated such that the other investors' exposures to the structure's variable returns have been substantively eliminated, the 
Group may conclude that the managers of the structured entity are acting as its agent and therefore will consolidate the structured entity. 

An interest in equity voting rights exceeding 50% would typically indicate that the Group has control of an entity. However, the entity set out 
below is excluded from consolidation because the Group does not have exposure to its variable returns. 

Country of registration or incorporation Company name

Percentage of
 voting rights held

 %

Equity 
shareholders'

 funds 
£m

Retained profit 
for the year 

£m
Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 9 7

This entity is managed by an external counterparty and consequently is not controlled by the Group. Interests relating to this entity are included in 
Note 37.

306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
36 Principal subsidiaries continued
Significant restrictions
As is typical for a Group of its size and international scope, there are restrictions on the ability of Barclays PLC to obtain distributions of capital, 
access the assets or repay the liabilities of members of its Group due to the statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements of its subsidiaries 
and due to the protective rights of non-controlling interests. These are considered below.

Regulatory requirements
Barclays' principal subsidiary companies have assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations of £1,407bn (2016: £1,553bn) and £1,341bn 
(2016: £1,480bn) respectively. The assets and liabilities are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in the countries in 
which they are regulated. These require entities to maintain minimum capital levels which cannot be returned to the Parent company, Barclays PLC 
on a going concern basis. 

In order to meet capital requirements, subsidiaries may hold certain equity-accounted and debt-accounted issued financial instruments and 
non-equity instruments such as Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments and other forms of subordinated liabilities. Refer to Note 33 and Note 30 for 
particulars of these instruments. These instruments may be subject to cancellation clauses or preference share restrictions that would limit the 
ability of the entity to repatriate the capital on a timely basis.

Liquidity requirements
Regulated subsidiaries of the Group are required to meet PRA and local regulatory requirements pertaining to liquidity. Some of the subsidiaries 
affected are Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc which must maintain daily compliance with the regulatory minimum. See pages 166 to 
178 for further details of liquidity requirements, including those of our significant subsidiaries.

Statutory requirements 
The Group's subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits and generally to maintain 
solvency. These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to make remittances of dividends to Barclays PLC, the ultimate parent, except in the 
event of a legal capital reduction or liquidation. In most cases, the regulatory restrictions referred to above exceed the statutory restrictions.

Contractual requirements
Asset encumbrance
The Group uses its financial assets to raise finance in the form of securitisations and through the liquidity schemes of central banks. 
Once encumbered, the assets are not available for transfer around the Group. The assets typically affected are disclosed in Note 40.

Assets held by consolidated structured entities
None of the assets (2016: £99m) included in the Group's balance sheet relate to consolidated investment funds, held to pay return and principal 
to the holders of units in the funds. Any assets held in these funds cannot be transferred to other members of the Group. The decrease since 
2016 is due to the sale of the French Funds Business.

Other restrictions
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities, and these amounted to £3,360m (2016: £4,254m). 

37 Structured entities
A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are generally 
created to achieve a narrow and well-defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. 

Depending on the Group's power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate 
the entity. In other cases, it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it.

Consolidated structured entities
The Group has contractual arrangements which may require it to provide financial support to the following types of consolidated structured 
entities:

Securitisation vehicles
The Group uses securitisation as a source of financing and a means of risk transfer. Refer to Note 39 for further detail.

The Group, in previous periods, has provided liquidity facilities to certain securitisation vehicles. At 31 December 2017, there were no outstanding 
loan commitments to these entities (2016: £152m).

Commercial paper (CP) and medium-term note conduits
The Group provided £10.2bn (2016: £9bn) in undrawn contractual backstop liquidity facilities to CP conduits.

Fund management entities
In previous periods, Barclays had contractually guaranteed the performance of certain cash investments in a number of managed investment 
funds which resulted in their consolidation. As at 31 December 2017, the notional value of the guarantees were £nil (2016: £99m) as the 
European Wealth Funds associated with these guarantees were either closed or ownership has been transferred outside the Group and they 
are no longer consolidated.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 307

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Scope of consolidation
Notes to the financial statements

37 Structured entities continued
Employee benefit and other trusts
The Group provides capital contributions to employee share trusts to enable them to meet their obligations to employees under share-based 
payment plans. During 2017, the Group provided undrawn liquidity facilities of £1.8bn (2016: £0.4bn) to certain trusts.

Unconsolidated structured entities in which the Group has an interest
An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual involvement which creates variability in returns arising from the 
performance of the entity for the Group. Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, derivatives that transfer financial risks from 
the entity to the Group, lending, loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management agreements.

Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives that are not complex and which expose the Group to insignificant credit risk by being senior 
in the payment waterfall of a securitisation and derivatives that are determined to introduce risk or variability to a structured entity are not 
considered to be an interest in an entity and have been excluded from the disclosures below.

The nature and extent of the Group's interests in structured entities is summarised below:

Summary of interests in unconsolidated structured entities

Secured
 financing

£m

Short-term
 traded

 interests
£m

Traded
 derivatives

£m

Other
 interests

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2017
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 10,788 – 699 11,487
Financial assets designated at fair value 31,520 – – 2,721 34,241
Derivative financial instruments – – 4,380 – 4,380
Loans and advances to banks – – – – –
Loans and advances to customers 5,481 – – 17,386 22,867
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 753 – – – 753
Other assets – – – 509 509
Total assets 37,754 10,788 4,380 21,315 74,237
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 5,193 3,356 8,549

As at 31 December 2016
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 8,436 – 516 8,952
Financial assets designated at fair value 22,706 – – 367 23,073
Derivative financial instruments – – 4,731 2,130 6,861
Loans and advances to banks – – – 4,915 4,915
Loans and advances to customers – – – 24,142 24,142
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 6,338 – – – 6,338
Other assets – – – 919 919
Total assets 29,044 8,436 4,731 32,989 75,200
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 3,567 2,130 5,697

Secured financing arrangements, short-term traded interests and traded derivatives are typically managed under market risk management policies 
described on page 129 which includes an indication of the change of risk measures compared to last year. For this reason, the total assets of these 
entities are not considered meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented. Other interests include 
conduits and lending where the interest is driven by normal customer demand.

Secured financing 
The Group routinely enters into reverse repurchase contracts, stock borrowing and similar arrangements on normal commercial terms where the 
counterparty to the arrangement is a structured entity. Due to the nature of these arrangements, especially the transfer of collateral and ongoing 
margining, the Group has minimal exposure to the performance of the structured entity counterparty. This includes margin lending which is 
presented under Loans and advances to customers in 2017 to align to the balance sheet presentation. In 2016 margin lending was presented 
in Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending within Note 37. A description of these transactions is included in Note 22. 

Short-term traded interests
The Group buys and sells interests in structured entities as part of its trading activities, for example, retail mortgage backed securities, 
collateralised debt obligations and similar interests. Such interests are typically held individually or as part of a larger portfolio for no more than 
90 days. In such cases, the Group typically has no other involvement with the structured entity other than the securities it holds as part of trading 
activities and its maximum exposure to loss is restricted to the carrying value of the asset.

As at 31 December 2017, £9,645m (2016: £6,568m) of the Group's £10,788m (2016: £8,436m) short-term traded interests were comprised of 
debt securities issued by asset securitisation vehicles.

308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
37 Structured entities continued
Traded derivatives
The Group enters into a variety of derivative contracts with structured entities which reference market risk variables such as interest rates, foreign 
exchange rates and credit indices among other things. The main derivative types which are considered interests in structured entities include 
index-based and entity specific credit default swaps, balance guaranteed swaps, total return swaps, commodities swaps, and equity swaps. 
A description of the types of derivatives and the risk management practices are detailed in Note 15. The risk of loss may be mitigated through 
ongoing margining requirements as well as a right to cash flows from the structured entity which are senior in the payment waterfall. Such 
margining requirements are consistent with market practice for many derivative arrangements and in line with the Group's normal credit policies. 

Derivative transactions require the counterparty to provide cash or other collateral under margining agreements to mitigate counterparty credit 
risk. The Group is mainly exposed to settlement risk on these derivatives which is mitigated through daily margining. Total notionals amounted 
to £1,680,615m (2016: £1,183,215m).

Except for credit default swaps where the maximum exposure to loss is the swap notional amount, it is not possible to estimate the maximum 
exposure to loss in respect of derivative positions as the fair value of derivatives is subject to changes in market rates of interest, exchange rates 
and credit indices which by their nature are uncertain. In addition, the Group's losses would be subject to mitigating action under its traded market 
risk and credit risk policies that require the counterparty to provide collateral in cash or other assets in most cases.

Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities
The Group's interests in structured entities not held for the purposes of short-term trading activities are set out below, summarised by the purpose 
of the entities and limited to significant categories, based on maximum exposure to loss.

Nature of interest
Multi-seller

 conduit
programmes

£m
Lending

£m

Investment 
funds and

 trusts
£m

Others
£m

Total
£m

As at 31 December 2017
Trading portfolio assets
– Debt securities – – – 699 699
Financial assets designated at fair value
– Loans and advances – – – 2,721 2,721
Loans and advances to banks – – – – –
Loans and advances to customers 5,424 11,497 – 465 17,386
Other assets 468 11 8 22 509
Total on-balance sheet exposures 5,892 11,508 8 3,907 21,315
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 6,270 6,337 – 446 13,053
Maximum exposure to loss 12,162 17,845 8 4,353 34,368
Total assets of the entity 103,057 179,994 11,137 22,669 316,857

As at 31 December 2016
Trading portfolio assets
– Debt securities – – – 441 441
– Equity securities – – – 75 75
Financial assets designated at fair value
– Loans and advances – 260 – 4 264
– Debt securities – 50 – 48 98
– Equity securities – – – 5 5
Derivative financial instruments – – – 2,130 2,130
Loans and advances to banks – 4,890 – 25 4,915
Loans and advances to customers 6,016 16,754 – 1,372 24,142
Other assets 5 7 13 894 919
Total on-balance sheet exposures 6,021 21,961 13 4,994 32,989
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 2,734 9,873 – 1,739 14,346
Maximum exposure to loss 8,755 31,834 13 6,733 47,335
Total assets of the entity 75,535 492,950 18,550 39,342 626,377

Maximum exposure to loss
Unless specified otherwise below, the Group's maximum exposure to loss is the total of its on-balance sheet positions and its off-balance sheet 
arrangements, being loan commitments and financial guarantees. Exposure to loss is mitigated through collateral, financial guarantees, the 
availability of netting and credit protection held.

Multi-seller conduit programme
The multi-seller conduit engages in providing financing to various clients and holds whole or partial interests in pools of receivables or similar 
obligations. These instruments are protected from loss through over-collateralisation, seller guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided 
to the conduit. The Group's off-balance sheet exposure included in the table above represents liquidity facilities that are provided to the conduit 
for the benefit of the holders of the commercial paper issued by the conduit and will only be drawn where the conduit is unable to access the 
commercial paper market. If these liquidity facilities are drawn, the Group is protected from loss through over-collateralisation, seller guarantees, 
or other credit enhancements provided to the conduit. 

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 309

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Scope of consolidation
Notes to the financial statements

37 Structured entities continued
Lending
The portfolio includes lending provided by the Group to unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of its lending business to earn 
income in the form of interest and lending fees and includes loans to structured entities that are generally collateralised by property, equipment or 
other assets. All loans are subject to the Group's credit sanctioning process. Collateral arrangements are specific to the circumstances of each loan 
with additional guarantees and collateral sought from the sponsor of the structured entity for certain arrangements. During the period the Group 
incurred an impairment of £11m (2016: £24m) against such facilities. 

Investment funds and trusts 
In the course of its fund management activities, the Group establishes pooled investment funds that comprise investments of various kinds, 
tailored to meet certain investors' requirements. The Group's interest in funds is generally restricted to a fund management fee, the value of which 
is typically based on the performance of the fund.

The Group acts as trustee to a number of trusts established by or on behalf of its clients. The purpose of the trusts, which meet the definition of 
structured entities, is to hold assets on behalf of beneficiaries. The Group's interest in trusts is generally restricted to unpaid fees which, depending 
on the trust, may be fixed or based on the value of the trust assets. Barclays has no other risk exposure to the trusts.

Other
This includes fair value loans with structured entities where the market risk is materially hedged with corresponding derivative contracts, interests 
in debt securities issued by securitisation vehicles and drawn and undrawn loan facilities to these entities.

Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities
Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities were immaterial.

38 Investments in associates and joint ventures

Accounting for associates and joint ventures
Barclays applies IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. Associates are entities in which the Group has significant 
influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies. Generally the Group holds more than 20%, but less than 50%, of their 
voting shares. Joint ventures are arrangements where the Group has joint control and rights to the net assets of the entity.

The Group's investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased (or decreased) each year by the Group's 
share of the post acquisition profit/(loss). The Group ceases to recognise its share of the losses of equity accounted associates when its share 
of the net assets and amounts due from the entity have been written off in full, unless it has a contractual or constructive obligation to make 
good its share of the losses. In some cases, investments in these entities may be held at fair value through profit or loss, for example, those held 
by private equity businesses.

There are no individually significant investments in joint ventures or associates held by Barclays. 

2017 2016
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m

Equity accounted 402 316 718 321 363 684
Held at fair value through profit or loss – 447 447 – 484 484
Total 402 763 1,165 321 847 1,168

Summarised financial information for the Group's equity accounted associates and joint ventures is set out below. The amounts shown are the net 
income of the investees, not just the Group's share for the year ended 31 December 2017, with the exception of certain undertakings for which the 
amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.

Associates Joint ventures
2017

£m
2016

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Profit from continuing operations 117 33 77 64
Other comprehensive expense – – (15) 19
Total comprehensive income from continuing operations 117 33 62 83

Unrecognised shares of the losses of individually immaterial associates and joint ventures were £nil (2016: £nil).

The Group's associates and joint ventures are subject to statutory or contractual requirements such that they cannot make remittances 
of dividends or make loan repayments to Barclays PLC without agreement from the external parties. 

The Group's share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures comprised unutilised credit facilities provided to 
customers of £1,712m (2016: £1,755m). In addition, the Group has made commitments to finance or otherwise provide resources to its joint 
ventures and associates of £246m (2016: £263m).

310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
39 Securitisations

Accounting for securitisations
The Group uses securitisations as a source of finance and a means of risk transfer. Such transactions generally result in the transfer 
of contractual cash flows from portfolios of financial assets to holders of issued debt securities.

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition 
of the debt securities issued in the transaction; lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Group's continuing 
involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations 
created or retained in the transfer. Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from 
the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to 
another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit 
risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.

In the course of its normal banking activities, the Group makes transfers of financial assets, either where legal rights to the cash flows from the 
asset are passed to the counterparty or beneficially, where the Group retains the rights to the cash flows but assumes a responsibility to transfer 
them to the counterparty. Depending on the nature of the transaction, this may result in derecognition of the assets in their entirety, partial 
derecognition or no derecognition of the assets subject to the transfer. 

A summary of the main transactions, and the assets and liabilities and the financial risks arising from these transactions, is set out below:

Transfers of financial assets that do not result in derecognition
Securitisations
The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans and credit card balances. 

In these transactions, the assets, interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special 
purpose entity, which then issues interest bearing debt securities to third party investors. 

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the 
debt securities issued in the transaction. Partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Group's continuing involvement in those 
assets can also occur or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or 
retained in the transfer. 

The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets that have not resulted in full derecognition, together with the associated 
liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet:

2017 2016
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities

Carrying
 amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying
 amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying
 amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying
 amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Loans and advances to customers
Residential mortgage loans – – – – 125 120 (107) (107)
Credit cards, unsecured and other 
retail lending 3,772 3,757 (3,635) (3,626) 5,094 5,084 (4,926) (4,931)
Total 3,772 3,757 (3,635) (3,626) 5,219 5,204 (5,033) (5,038)

Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have 
been retained by the Group. 

The relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the 
securitised assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes, although the contractual terms of their notes 
may be different to the maturity and interest of the transferred assets. 

For transfers of assets in relation to repurchase agreements, refer to Note 22 and Note 40.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 311

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Scope of consolidation
Notes to the financial statements

39 Securitisations continued
Continuing involvement in financial assets that have been derecognised
In some cases, the Group may have transferred a financial asset in its entirety but may have continuing involvement in it. This arises in asset 
securitisations where loans and asset backed securities were derecognised as a result of the Group's involvement, mainly with CLOs and CMBS. 
Continuing involvement largely arises from providing financing into these structures in the form of retained notes, which do not bear first losses. 

The table below shows the potential financial implications of such continuing involvement:

Type of transfer

Continuing involvementa
Gain/(loss) from continuing 

involvement

Carrying
 amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Maximum
 exposure to

 loss
£m

For the
 year ended

£m

Cumulative to
 31 December

£m
2017
CLO and other assets – – – – –
Commercial mortgage backed securities 94 94 94 1 1
Total 94 94 94 1 1
2016
CLO and other assets 10 10 10 – (3)
Commercial mortgage backed securities – – – – –
Total 10 10 10 – (3)

Note
a Assets which represent the Group's continuing involvement in derecognised assets are recorded in Loans and advances and Trading portfolio assets.

40 Assets pledged
Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security 
deposits relating to derivatives. Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 171 
(unaudited), other than those held in commercial paper conduits. In these transactions, Barclays will be required to step in to provide financing 
itself under a liquidity facility if the vehicle cannot access the commercial paper market. The following table summarises the nature and carrying 
amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Trading portfolio assets 73,899 51,241
Financial assets at fair value 4,798 3,195
Loans and advances to customers 41,772 30,414
Cash collateral 56,351 68,797
Financial investments 15,058 13,053
Non current assets held for sale – 117
Assets pledged 191,878 166,817

Barclays has an additional £9bn (2016: £14bn) of loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that can readily be used to 
raise additional secured funding and are available to support future issuance. 

Total assets pledged includes a collateral pool put in place to provide security for the UKRF funding deficit. Refer to Note 35 for further details.

Collateral held as security for assets
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or re-pledge 
the collateral held. The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and re-pledged to others was as follows:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 608,412 466,975
Of which fair value of securities re-pledged/transferred to others 547,637 405,582

Additional disclosure has been included in collateral and other credit enhancements (see pages 140 and 141).

312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
The notes included in this section focus on related party transactions, Auditors' remuneration and Directors' remuneration. Related parties 
include any subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, entities under common directorships and Key Management Personnel.

41 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration
Related party transactions
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party 
in making financial or operational decisions, or one other party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and 
the Group's pension schemes.

Subsidiaries
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions. Where these are eliminated on 
consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group Financial Statements. Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC, 
are fully disclosed in Barclays PLC's balance sheet and income statement. A list of the Group's principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 36.

Associates, joint ventures and other entities
The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds (principally the UK Retirement Fund) and to entities 
under common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well 
as other services. Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes. The Group also 
provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies, which are not individually material. All of these 
transactions are conducted on the same terms as third party transactions. Summarised financial information for the Group's investments in 
associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 38.

Amounts included in the Group's financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:

Associates
£m

Joint ventures
£m

 Pension funds,
 unit trusts and 

investment 
funds

£m
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2017
Income/(expense) (20) 38 4
Impairment releases 2 – – 
Total assets 2 1,048 2
Total liabilities 75 2 162
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2016
Income/(expense) (20) 7 4
Impairment charges (13) – – 
Total assets 72 2,244 – 
Total liabilities 94 95 260
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2015
Income/(expense) (19) 40 4
Impairment charges (4) (2) – 
Total assets 36 1,578 – 
Total liabilities 158 133 184

Guarantees, pledges or commitments given in respect of these transactions in the year were £27m (2016: £940m) predominantly relating to joint 
ventures. No guarantees, pledges or commitments were received in the year. Derivatives transacted on behalf of the pensions funds, unit trusts 
and investment funds were £3m (2016: £3m).

Key Management Personnel
The Group's Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes. 
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities 
of Barclays PLC (directly or indirectly) and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the 
Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units and functions.

There were no material related party transactions with entities under common directorship where a Director or other member of Key Management 
Personnel (or any connected person) is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel (or any connected person) of Barclays.

The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them. Transactions during the 
year and the balances outstanding were as follows:

Loans outstanding
2017

£m
2016

£m
As at 1 January 9.2 9.8
Loans issued during the year 0.5 0.6
Loan repayments during the year/change of key management personnel (4.9) (1.2)
As at 31 December 4.8 9.2

Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 313

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

41 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration continued
No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel (or any 
connected person).

Deposits outstanding
2017

£m
2016

£m
As at 1 January 7.3 116.5
Deposits received during the year 25.7 18.9
Deposits repaid during the year/change of key management personnel (26.1) (128.1)
As at 31 December 6.9 7.3

Total commitments outstanding
Total commitments outstanding refers to the total of any undrawn amounts on credit cards and/or overdraft facilities provided to Key 
Management Personnel. Total commitments outstanding as at 31 December 2017 were £0.3m (2016: £0.2m).

All loans to Directors and other Key Management Personnel (and persons connected to them), (a) were made in the ordinary course of business, 
(b) were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable 
transactions with other persons and (c) did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.

Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel
Total remuneration awarded to Directors and other Key Management Personnel below represents the awards made to individuals that have been 
approved by the Board Remuneration Committee as part of the latest remuneration decisions, and is consistent with the approach adopted for 
disclosures set out on pages 93 to 116. Costs recognised in the income statement reflect the accounting charge for the year included within 
operating expenses. The difference between the values awarded and the recognised income statement charge principally relates to the recognition 
of deferred costs for prior year awards. Figures are provided for the period that individuals met the definition of Directors and other Key 
Management Personnel.

2017
£m

2016
£m

Salaries and other short-term benefits 33.9 31.9
Pension costs 0.1 0.2
Other long-term benefits 18.4 11.0
Share-based payments 26.8 21.9
Employer social security charges on emoluments 9.6 6.2
Costs recognised for accounting purposes 88.8 71.2
Employer social security charges on emoluments (9.6) (6.2)
Other long-term benefits – difference between awards granted and costs recognised (9.8) (2.5)
Share-based payments – difference between awards granted and costs recognised (11.7) (8.9)
Total remuneration awarded 57.7 53.6

Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006
The following information regarding Directors is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006:

2017
£m

2016
£m

Aggregate emolumentsa 8.5 8.1
Amounts paid under LTIPsb 1.1 –

9.6 8.1

Notes
a The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2017 year. In addition, deferred share awards for 2017 will be made to James E Staley and Tushar Morzaria which will 

only vest subject to meeting certain conditions. The total of the deferred share awards is £1m (2016: £1.4m).
b The figure above for ‘Amounts paid under LTIPs' relates to an LTIP award that was released to Tushar Morzaria in 2017. Dividend shares released on the award are excluded. 

The LTIP figure in the single total figure table for executive Directors' 2017 remuneration in the Directors' Remuneration report relates to the award that is scheduled to be 
released in 2018 in respect of the 2015-2017 LTIP cycle.

There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors (2016: £nil). There were no notional pension 
contributions to defined contribution schemes.

As at 31 December 2017, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme (2016: nil).

Directors' and Officers' shareholdings and options
The beneficial ownership of ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 22 persons) at 
31 December 2017 amounted to 12,460,877 (2016: 11,464,580) ordinary shares of 25p each (0.07% of the ordinary share capital outstanding).

At 31 December 2017, executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 11 persons) held options to purchase a total of 6,000 
(2016: 22,527) Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 120p under Sharesave.

Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors
In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, the total amount of advances and credits made available in 2017 to persons who 
served as Directors during the year was £0.2m (2016: £0.2m). The total value of guarantees entered into on behalf of Directors during 2017 was 
£nil (2016: £nil).

314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
42 Auditors' remuneration
Auditors' remuneration is included within consultancy, legal and professional fees in administration and general expenses and comprises:

2017
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Audit of the Group's annual accounts 11 14 13
Other services:
Audit of the Company's subsidiariesa 27 27 21
Other audit related feesb 8 4 7
Other servicesc 2 4 2
Total Auditors' remuneration 48 49 43

Notes
a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of subsidiaries both inside and outside the UK and fees for work performed by associates of KPMG or PwC in respect of the 

consolidated financial statements of the Company. 
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK 

listing authority. 
c Includes consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.

KPMG became the Group's principal Auditor in 2017. PwC was the principal Auditor in 2016 and 2015.

The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to KPMG or PwC as principal Auditor. In addition, fees paid to KPMG in relation to 
discontinued operations were £4m (PwC 2016: £12m, PwC 2015: £10m).

43 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities

Accounting for non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities
The group applies IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.

Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than continuing use. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present 
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary and the sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.

Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale
Total
2017

£m

Total
2016

£m

Cash and balances at central banks – 2,930
Items in the course of collection from other banks – 570
Trading portfolio assets – 3,084
Financial assets designated at fair value 3 6,984
Derivative financial instruments – 1,992
Financial investments – 7,737
Loans and advances to banks – 1,666
Loans and advances to customers 1,164 43,504
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets – 696
Investments in associates and joint ventures – 87
Property, plant and equipment 26 954
Goodwill – 997
Intangible assets – 570
Current and deferred tax assets – 149
Retirement benefit assets – 33
Total 1,193 71,953
Balance of impairment unallocated under IFRS 5 – (499)
Total assets classified as held for sale 1,193 71,454

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 315

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

43 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities continued
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale

Total
2017

£m

Total
2016

£m
Deposits from banks – 2,149
Items in the course of collection due to banks – 373
Customer accounts – 42,431
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing – 597
Trading portfolio liabilities – 388
Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 7,325
Derivative financial instruments – 1,611
Debt securities in issue – 7,997
Subordinated liabilities – 934
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities – 1,180
Provisions – 103
Current and deferred tax liabilities – 162
Retirement benefit liabilities – 42
Total liabilities classified as held for sale – 65,292

Net assets classified as held for sale 1,193 6,162
Expected contribution to BAGL – 866
Disposal group post-contribution 1,193 7,028

During the year, a number of disposal groups classified as held for sale have been disposed of. The £70bn decrease in assets is driven by the 
disposals of BAGL (£65bn), the French retail business (£4bn), the Egypt business (£1bn), Barclays Vida Pensiones (£0.7bn) and the Zimbabwe 
business (£0.4bn). The associated liabilities of the above disposal groups have also been sold in the year.

Discontinued Operations
On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its intention to reduce the Group's 62.3% interest in BAGL to a level which would permit Barclays to 
deconsolidate BAGL from a regulatory perspective and, prior to that, from an accounting perspective. From this date, BAGL was treated as a 
discontinued operation. On 5 May 2016, Barclays sold 12.2% of the Group's interest in BAGL and on 1 June 2017 Barclays sold a further 33.7% 
of BAGL's issued share capital, resulting in the accounting deconsolidation of BAGL from the Barclays Group. As a result, as of 1 June 2017 BAGL 
was consequently no longer reported as a discontinued operation. At this time, Barclays' holding in BAGL technically met the requirements to 
be treated as an Associate. However, following a revision of its governance rights in July 2017 and the difference being immaterial, the holding 
was treated as an available for sale asset from the transaction date. In Q317 Barclays contributed 1.5% of BAGL's ordinary shares to a Black 
Economic Empowerment scheme, resulting in Barclays accounting for 126 million ordinary shares in BAGL, representing 14.9% of BAGL's issued 
share capital. The retained investment is reported as an available for sale asset, in the Head Office segment, with Barclays' share of BAGL's dividend 
recognised in the Head Office income statement.

Prior to the disposal of shares on 1 June 2017, BAGL met the requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation. As such, the results, 
which have been presented as the profit after tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued operation on the face of the Group 
income statement, are analysed in the income statement below. The income statement, statement of other comprehensive income and cash flow 
statement below represent five months of results as a discontinued operation to 31 May 2017, compared to the full year ended 31 December 2016.

Barclays Africa disposal group income statement

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m
Net interest income 1,024 2,169
Net fee and commission income 522 1,072
Net trading income 149 281
Net investment income 30 45
Net premiums from insurance contracts 161 362
Other income (16) 8
Total income 1,870 3,937
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts (84) (191)
Total income net of insurance claims 1,786 3,746
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (177) (445)
Net operating income 1,609 3,301
Staff costs (586) (1,186)
Administration and general expensesa (1,634) (1,224)
Operating expenses (2,220) (2,410)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5 6
(Loss)/profit before tax (606) 897
Taxation (154) (306)
(Loss)/profit after taxb (760) 591

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (900) 189
Non-controlling interests 140 402
(Loss)/profit after taxb (760) 591

Notes
a Includes impairment of £1,090m (2016: £nil).
b Total loss in respect of the discontinued operation was £2,195m which included the £60m loss on sale and £1,375m loss on recycling of other comprehensive loss on reserves.

316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
43 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities continued
Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m

Available for sale assets (3) (9)
Currency translation reserves (38) 1,451
Cash flow hedge reserves 19 89
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of tax from discontinued operations (22) 1,531

The cash flows attributed to the discontinued operation are as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2017

£m
2016

£m

Net cash flows from operating activities 540 1,164
Net cash flows from investing activities (245) (691)
Net cash flows from financing activities (165) (105)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (29) 37
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 101 405

44 Barclays PLC (the Parent company)
Other income
Other income of £690m (2016: £334m) includes £639m (2016: £457m) of income received from gross coupon payments on Barclays Bank PLC 
issued AT1 securities.

Non-Current Assets and Liabilities
Investment in subsidiaries
The investment in subsidiaries of £39,354m (2016: £36,553m) predominantly represents investments made into Barclays Bank PLC, including 
£8,986m (2016: £6,486m) of AT1 securities. The increase of £2,801m during the year was driven by AT1 issuances of £2,500m during the period, 
as well as a £300m investment in Barclays Services Limited (the ‘Group Service Company').

The Group Service Company was established in September 2017 as a direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC to deliver operational continuity and to 
drive operational efficiencies across the Group. In September 2017, Barclays transferred c.£3.8bn of assets and liabilities from Barclays Bank PLC 
and its subsidiaries to the Group Service Company.

Loans and advances to subsidiaries, subordinated liabilities and debt securities in issue
During the period, Barclays PLC issued $2bn of Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes, €1.5bn of Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes and SGD 0.2bn Fixed 
Rate Subordinated Notes included within the subordinated liabilities balance of £6,501m (2016: £3,789m), $5bn of Fixed and Floating Rate Senior 
Notes, £1.95bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes and €0.5bn Fixed Rate Senior Notes included within the debt securities in issue balance of £22,110m 
(2016: £16,893m). The proceeds raised through these transactions were used to invest in Barclays Bank PLC in each case with a ranking 
corresponding to the notes issued by Barclays PLC and included within the loans and advances to subsidiaries balance of £23,970m (2016: 
£19,421m).

Financial investments
The financial investment assets relate to loans made to subsidiaries of the Group accounted for as available for sale instruments. These include a 
feature that allows for the loan to be written down in whole or in part by the borrower only in the event that the liabilities of the subsidiary would 
otherwise exceed its assets.

Derivative financial instrument
The derivative financial instrument of £161m (2016: £268m) held by the Parent company represents Barclays PLC's right to receive a Capital Note 
for no additional consideration, in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls 
below 7% at which point the notes are automatically assigned by the holders to Barclays PLC.

Management of internal investments, loans and advances
Barclays PLC retains the discretion to manage the nature of its internal investments in subsidiaries according to their regulatory and business 
needs. As we implement our structural reform programme, Barclays PLC expects to invest capital and funding in Barclays Bank PLC and other 
Group subsidiaries such as the Group Service Company, the US IHC and the UK ring-fenced bank. In October 2017, the Bank of England published 
a consultation on ‘Internal MREL' and following that consultation a final statement of policy is expected to be published in H1 2018. Accordingly, 
during the course of 2018 Barclays expects to restructure certain of its investments in subsidiaries, including to subordinate internal MREL beneath 
operating liabilities, to the extent required to achieve compliance with internal MREL requirements which are expected to be in effect from 
1 January 2019.

Total equity
Called up share capital and share premium of Barclays PLC was £22,045m (2016: £21,842m). Other equity instruments of £8,943m 
(2016: £6,453m) comprises of AT1 securities. For further details please refer to Note 31.

Structural reform
Barclays' plans for UK ring-fencing remain on track. The relevant court processes began in November 2017 with the Sanction hearing to be held 
on 26 and 27 February 2018 at which the Court will be requested to sanction Barclays' ring-fencing transfer scheme. We intend to complete the 
reorganisation and establish the UK ring-fenced bank in April 2018, ahead of the 1 January 2019 legislative deadline for implementation.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 317

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

45 Related undertakings
The Group's corporate structure consists of 
a number of related undertakings, comprising 
subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and 
significant other interests. A full list of these 
undertakings, the country of incorporation 
and the ownership of each share class is set 
out below. The information is provided as at 
31 December 2017. 

The entities are grouped by the countries 
in which they are incorporated. The profits 
earned by the activities of these entities are in 
some cases taxed in countries other than the 
country of incorporation. Barclays' 2017 
Country Snapshot provides details of where 
the Group carries on its business, where its 
profits are subject to tax and the taxes it pays 
in each country it operates in.

Wholly owned subsidiaries 
Unless otherwise stated the undertakings 
below are wholly owned and consolidated 
by Barclays and the share capital disclosed 
comprises ordinary and/or common shares, 
100% of the nominal value of which is held 
by Group subsidiaries. 

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Aequor Investments Limited  
Ardencroft Investments Limited
B D & B Investments Limited
B.P.B. (Holdings) Limited
Barafor Limited
Barclay Leasing Limited  
Barclays (Security Realisation) Limited  
Barclays Aegis Trust D
Barclays Africa Group Holdings Limited J, K
Barclays Aldersgate Investments Limited
Barclays Asset Management Limited  
Barclays Bank PLC A, F, I
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Barclays Cantal Investments Trust D
Barclays Capital Asia Holdings Limited
Barclays Capital Finance Limited
Barclays Capital Japan Securities Holdings 
Limited 
Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.à.r.l. Trust D
Barclays Capital Margin Financing Limited
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.2) Limited  
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.3) Limited  
Barclays Capital Nominees Limited
Barclays Capital Principal Investments Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Client Nominee 
Limited 
Barclays Capital Securities Limited F, I
Barclays CCP Funding LLP B
Barclays Converted Investments (No.2) Limited
Barclays Converted Investments Limited
Barclays Direct Investing Nominees Limited
Barclays Directors Limited
Barclays Equity Holdings Limited
Barclays Equity Index Investments Bare Trust D
Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees Limited
Barclays Financial Planning Nominee Company 
Limited
Barclays Funds Investments Limited
Barclays Global Shareplans Nominee Limited
Barclays Group Holdings Limited
Barclays Group Operations Limited
Barclays Industrial Development Limited

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Barclays Industrial Investments Limited
Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited  
Barclays Investment Management Limited  
Barclays Investment Solutions Limited
Barclays Lamorak Trust D
Barclays Leasing (No.9) Limited
Barclays Long Island Limited
Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings Trust D
Barclays Marlist Limited
Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited
Barclays Mercantile Limited
Barclays Nominees (Branches) Limited
Barclays Nominees (George Yard) Limited
Barclays Nominees (K.W.S.) Limited
Barclays Nominees (Provincial) Limited
Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited  
Barclays Private Bank  
Barclays Private Banking Services Limited  
Barclays SAMS Limited
Barclays Security Trustee Limited A
Barclays Services Limited A 
Barclays Services (Japan) Limited
Barclays Shea Limited
Barclays Singapore Global Shareplans Nominee 
Limited
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited
Barclays Unquoted Investments Limited
Barclays Unquoted Property Investments 
Limited
Barclays USD Funding LLP  B
Barclays Wealth Nominees Limited
Barclayshare Nominees Limited
Barcosec Limited
Barclays (Barley) Limited I, J, K
Barometers Limited
Barsec Nominees Limited
BB Client Nominees Limited  
BMBF (No.21) Limited  
BMBF (No.24) Limited
BMBF (No.3) Limited  
BMBF (No.6) Limited  
BMBF (No.9) Limited  
BMI (No.9) Limited
BNRI ENG 2013 Limited Partnership B

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
BNRI ENG 2014 Limited Partnership B
BNRI ENG GP LLP B
BNRI England 2010 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2011 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2012 Limited Partnership B
Carnegie Holdings Limited I, J, K
Chapelcrest Investments Limited
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited
Cobalt Investments Limited
Condor No.1 Limited Partnership B
CP Flower Guaranteeco (UK) Limited E
CP Propco 1 Limited
CP Propco 2 Limited
CP Topco Limited J, K
CPIA England 2008 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England 2009 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
DMW Realty Limited
Durlacher Nominees Limited  
Eagle Financial and Leasing Services (UK) 
Limited
Equity Value Investments Limited Liability 
Partnership B
Equity Value Investments No.1 Limited
Equity Value Investments No.2 Limited
Finpart Nominees Limited  
FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC  
Foltus Investments Limited
Gerrard Financial Planning Limited
Gerrard Management Services Limited
Gerrard Nominees Limited
Global Dynasty Natural Resource Private Equity 
Limited Partnership B
Globe Nominees Limited
Greig, Middleton Nominees Limited
Hawkins Funding Limited
Heraldglen Limited G, H, I
Investors In Infrastructure Limited
J.V. Estates Limited
Keepier Investments
Kirsche Investments Limited
Lombard Street Nominees Limited
Long Island Assets Limited
Maloney Investments Limited

Notes

A Directly held by Barclays PLC

B Partnership Interest

C Membership Interest

D Trust Interest

E Guarantor

F Preference Shares

G A Preference Shares

H B Preference Shares

I Ordinary/Common Shares in addition to other 
shares

J A Ordinary Shares

K B Ordinary Shares

L C Ordinary Shares

M F Ordinary Shares

N O Ordinary Shares

O W Ordinary Shares

P Redeemable Ordinary Shares

Q Core Shares, Insurance (Classified) Shares

R B, C, D, E (94.36%), F (94.36%), G (94.36%), 
H (94.36%), I (94.36%), J (95.23%) and K Class 
Shares

S A Unit Shares, B Unit Shares

T Class A Residual Shares, Class B Residual Shares

U A Voting Shares, B Non-Voting Shares

V Class A Ordinary Shares, Class A Preference 
Shares,  Class B Ordinary Shares, Class C Ordinary 
Shares, Class C Preference Shares, Class D 
Ordinary Shares, Class D Preference Shares, Class 
E Ordinary Shares, Class E Preference Shares, Class 
F Ordinary Shares, Class F Preference Shares, Class 
H 2012 Ordinary Shares, Class H 2012 Preference 
Shares, Class H Ordinary Shares, Class H 
Preference Shares,  Class I Preference Shares, Class 
J Preference Shares

W First Class Common Shares, Second Class 
Common Shares

X PEF Carry Shares

Y EUR Tracker 1 Shares, GBP Tracker 1 Shares, 
USD Tracker 1 Shares, USD Tracker 2 Shares, 
USD Tracker 3 shares

Z Not Consolidated (refer to Note 37)

AA USD Linked Ordinary Shares

BB Redeemable Class B Shares

CC A Ordinary, Y Ordinary, Z Ordinary

DD Nominal Shares

EE A Ordinary, D Ordinary, ZI Ordinary

FF Z Ordinary 

GG Class A1 Ordinary Shares, Class A2 Ordinary 
Shares 

HH Class A Unit Shares

II A Shares – Tranche I, Premium – Tranche I, 
C Shares – Tranche II, Premium – Tranche II

318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Menlo Investments Limited
Mercantile Credit Company Limited
Mercantile Leasing Company (No.132) Limited 
MK Opportunities LP B
Murray House Investment Management
Limited
Naxos Investments Limited
North Colonnade Investments Limited
Northwharf Investments Limited I, X
Northwharf Nominees Limited
PIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
Real Estate Participation Management 
Limited
Real Estate Participation Services Limited
Relative Value Investments UK Limited B
Liability Partnership
Relative Value Trading Limited
Roder Investments No.1 Limited I, Y
Roder Investments No.2 Limited I, Y
Ruthenium Investments Limited
RVT CLO Investments LLP B
Solution Personal Finance Limited
Surety Trust Limited
Swan Lane Investments Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.1 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.2 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.3 Limited
W.D. Pension Fund Limited
Wedd Jefferson (Nominees) Limited
Westferry Investments Limited
Woolwich Homes Limited
Woolwich Plan Managers Limited
Woolwich Qualifying Employee Share 
Ownership Trustee Limited
Woolwich Surveying Services Limited
Zeban Nominees Limited
– Hill House, 1 Little New Street, 
London, EC4A 3TR
Barclays BPT (in liquidation)
Barclays Mercantile Highland Finance Limited 
(in liquidation)
Boudeuse Limited (in liquidation)
Denham Investments Limited (in liquidation)
Exshelfco (DZBC) (in liquidation)
Greig Middleton Holdings Limited 
(in liquidation)
Scotlife Home Loans (No.3) Limited 
(in liquidation)
Woolwich Assured Homes Limited 
(in liquidation)
Woolwich Homes (1987) Limited 
(in liquidation) E
Woolwich Limited (in liquidation)
– 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, 
London, E14 4BB
BBR Holdings Trust D
Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg Trust D
CPIA Canada Holdings B
Leonis Investments LLP B
Preferred Liquidity Limited Partnership B
– Aurora Building, 120 Bothwell Street, 
Glasgow, G2 7JS
R.C. Grieg Nominees Limited
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square,  
Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ
BNRI PIA Scot GP Limited
BNRI Scots GP, LLP B
Pecan Aggregator LP B
– Logic House, Waterfront Business Park,  
Fleet Road, Fleet, GU51 3SB
The Logic Group Enterprises Limited
The Logic Group Holdings Limited J

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Argentina
– 855 Leandro N.Alem Avenue, 8th Floor, 
Buenos Aires 
Compañía Sudamerica S.A.
– Marval, O'Farrell & Mairal, Av. Leandro N. 
Alem 882, Buenos
Compañia Regional del Sur S.A.

Brazil
– Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, No. 4.440, 12th 
Floor, Bairro Itaim, Bibi, Sao Paulo, CEP, 
04538-132
BNC Brazil Consultoria Empresarial Ltda
Barclays Brasil Assessoria Financeira Ltda.

Canada
– 333 Bay Street, Suite 4910,  
Toronto ON M5H 2R2
Barclays Capital Canada Inc.
– Stikeman Elliott LLP, 199 Bay Street, 5300  
Commerce Court, West, Toronto ON M5L 1B9
Barclays Corporation Limited

Cayman Islands
– Maples Corporate Services Limited,  
PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, South Church 
Street, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104
Alymere Investments Limited G, H, I
Analytical Trade UK Limited
Barclays Capital (Cayman) Limited
Braven Investments No.1 Limited
Capton Investments Limited
Claudas Investments Limited G, H, I
Claudas Investments Two Limited
CPIA Investments No.1 Limited V
CPIA Investments No.2 Limited F, I
Furbridge Investments Limited (in liquidation)
Hurley Investments No.1 Limited
Iris Investments 1 Limited G, H, I
Mintaka Investments No. 4 Limited
OGP Leasing Limited
Pelleas Investments Limited
Pelleas Investments Two Limited
Pippin Island Investments Limited
Razzoli Investments Limited F, I
RVH Limited F, I
– PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-1102 
Blaytell Limited
Coskwo Limited
Godler Limited
Harflane Limited
Hentock Limited
Hollygrice Limited
Pilkbull Limited
Strickyard Limited
Winhall Limited
– 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-9005
Calthorpe Investments Limited
Gallen Investments Limited
JV Assets Limited L
Palomino Limited Z
Wessex Investments Limited
– Walkers Corporate Limited, Cayman 
Corporate Centre, 27 Hospital Road,  
George Town, KY1– 9008
Long Island Holding B Limited

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

China
– Room 213, Building 1, No. 1000 Chenhui  
Road,  Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai
Barclays Technology Centre (Shanghai) 
Company Limited

France
– 34/36 avenue de Friedland, Paris, 75008 
BBAIL SAS

Germany
– TaunusTurm, Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt
Barclays Capital Effekten GmbH
– c/o SFM Deutschland GmbH, Gruneburgweg 
58-62, 60322 , Frankfurt am Main
Baubecon Holding 1 GmbH (in liquidation)
– Stuttgarter Straße 55-57, 73033 Göppingen
Adler Toy Beteiligungs GmbH
Holding Stuttgarter Straße GmbH

Guernsey
– P.O. Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, 
St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT
Barclays Insurance Guernsey PCC Limited Q
– PO BOX 41, Floor 2, Le Marchant House, 
Le Truchot, St Peter Port, GY1 3BE
Barclays Nominees (Guernsey) Limited

Hong Kong
– 42nd floor Citibank Tower, Citibank Plaza, 
3 Garden Road
Barclays Bank (Hong Kong Nominees) Limited 
(in liquidation)
Barclays Capital Asia Nominees Limited 
(in liquidation)
– Level 41, Cheung Kong Center, 2 Queen's 
Road Central
Barclays Asia Limited
Barclays Capital Asia Limited

India
– 208 Ceejay House, Shivsagar Estate, 
Dr A Beasant Road, Worli, Mumbai, 400 018 
Barclays Securities (India) Private Limited
Barclays Wealth Trustees (India) Private Limited
– 67, Maker Tower ‘F' 6th Floor, Cuffe Parade,  
Mumbai, 400 005
Barclays Holdings India Private Limited (in 
liquidation)
– Ground to Fourth Floor, Wing 3 – Cluster A, 
Eon Free Zone, MIDC Knowledge Park, Pune, 
411014
Barclays Global Service Centre Private Limited
– Level 10, Block B6, Nirlon Knowledge Park,  
Off Western Express Highway, Goregaon 
(East), Mumbai, 40063
Barclays Investments & Loans (India) Limited F, I

Indonesia
– Barclays House, 12th Floor, Jl. Jend Sudirman  
Kav. 22-23, Jakarta, 12920
PT Bank Barclays Indonesia (in liquidation)
– Plaza Lippo, 10th Floor, Jalan Jend, Sudirman 
Kav 25, Jakarta, 12920 
PT Bhadra Buana Persada (in liquidation)

Ireland
– Two Park Place, Hatch Street, Dublin 2
Barclaycard International Payments Limited
Barclays Bank Ireland Public Limited Company

45 Related undertakings continued

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 319

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Isle of Man
– Barclays House, Victoria Street, Douglas 
Barclays Nominees (Manx) Limited
– P O Box 9, Victoria Street, Douglas, IM99 1AJ
Barclays Private Clients International Limited J, K
– 2nd Floor, St Georges Court, Upper Church  
Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE
Barclays Holdings (Isle of Man) Limited 
(in liquidation)

Japan
– 10-1, Roppongi 6-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo
Barclays Funds and Advisory Japan Limited
Barclays Securities Japan Limited
Barclays Wealth Services Limited

Jersey
– Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, St. Helier, JE2 3QA
CP Newco 1 Limited
CP Newco 2 Limited J, K
CP Newco 3 Limited
– La Motte Chambers, St Helier, JE1 1BJ
Barclays Services Jersey Limited
– 39-41 Broad Street, St Helier, JE2 3RR
Barclays Wealth Management Jersey Limited
BIFML PTC Limited
– 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT
Barclays Index Finance Trust S
– Lime Grove House, Green Street,  
St Helier, JE1 2ST 
Barbridge Limited I, DD 
– 13 Library Place, St Helier, JE4 8NE
Barclays Nominees (Jersey) Limited
Barclaytrust Channel Islands Limited
– Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited, PO Box 207, 
13-14 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1BD 
MK Opportunities GP Ltd

Korea, Republic of
– A-1705 Yeouido Park Centre,  
28-3 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul
Barclays Korea GP Limited

Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
Barclays Aegis Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Alzin Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bayard Investments S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Bedivere Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bordang Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays BR Holdings S.à r.l.  
Barclays BR Investments S.à r.l.  
Barclays Cantal Investments S.à r.l. GG
Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.à r.l.
Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Claudas Investments Partnership B
Barclays Equity Index Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Lamorak Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Leto Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings S.à r.l
Barclays Luxembourg Finance S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings S.à r.l. I, AA
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings SSC B
Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings S.à r.l. J, K 
Barclays Pelleas Investments Limited 
Partnership B
Barclays Pelleas Investments S.à r.l.
Blossom Finance General Partnership B
– 68-70 Boulevard de la Petrusse, L-2320
Adler Toy Holding Sarl

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Malaysia
– Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical 
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, 
No.8, Jalan Kerinchi, Kuala Lumpur, 59200
Barclays Capital Markets Malaysia Sdn Bhd. 
(in liquidation) F, I

Mauritius
– C/O Rogers Capital Corporate Services, St.  
Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & St. Louis 
Streets, Port Louis
Barclays Capital Mauritius Limited  
Barclays Capital Securities Mauritius Limited
– Fifth Floor, Ebene Esplanade, 24 Cybercity, 
Ebene
Barclays (H&B) Mauritius Limited
Barclays Mauritius Overseas Holdings Limited

Mexico
– Paseo de la Reforma 505, 41 Floor, Torre  
Mayor, Col. Cuauhtemoc, CP 06500
Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A. K, M
Barclays Capital Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. K, M 
Grupo Financiero Barclays Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Servicios Barclays, S.A. de C.V. K, M

Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, BP 339
Barclays Wealth Asset Management  
(Monaco) S.A.M

Netherlands
– Strawinskylaan 3105, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam
Barclays SLCSM Funding B.V. (in liquidation)
– De Boelelaan 7, 1083 Hj Amsterdam
Chewdef BidCo BV. (in liquidation)

Nigeria
– Southgate House, Udi Street, Osborne 
Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos
Barclays Group Representative Office (NIG) 
Limited

Philippines
– 21/F, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo de 
Roxas, Makati City, 1226
Meridian (SPV-AMC) Corporation

Russian Federation
– Four Winds Plaza, 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya 
Str, Moscow  21, 125047
Limited Liability Company Barclays Capital 
(in liquidation)

Saudi Arabia
– 18th Floor Al Faisaliah Tower, Riyadh, 11311
Barclays Saudi Arabia (in liquidation)

Singapore
– 10 Marina Boulevard, #24-01 Marina Bay 
Financial Centre, Tower 2, 018983
Barclays Bank (Singapore Nominees) Pte Ltd
Barclays Bank (South East Asia) Nominees Pte Ltd
Barclays Capital Futures (Singapore) Private
Limited
Barclays Capital Holdings (Singapore) Private
Limited
Barclays Merchant Bank (Singapore) Ltd.

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Spain
– Plaza De Colon 1, 28046, Madrid
Barclays Tenedora De Immuebles SL.
BVP Galvani Global, S.A.U. Z

Switzerland
– Chemin de Grange Canal 18-20, PO Box 
3941, 1211, Geneva 
Barclays Bank (Suisse) S.A.
BPB Holdings SA
Barclays Switzerland Services SA

United States
 – Corporation Trust Company, Corporation 
Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington 
DE 19801
Archstone Equity Holdings Inc
Barclays BWA, Inc.
Barclays Capital Commodities Corporation
Barclays Capital Derivatives Funding LLC C
Barclays Capital Energy Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Finance Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Holdings Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc.
Barclays Commercial Mortgage Securities LLC C
Barclays Electronic Commerce Holdings Inc.
Barclays Financial LLC C
Barclays Group US Inc.
Barclays Oversight Management Inc.
Barclays Receivables LLC C
Barclays Services Corporation
Barclays US CCP Funding LLC C
Barclays US Funding LLC C
Barclays US LLC G, I
Barclays US Investments LLC K, GG
BCAP LLC C
CPIA Equity No. 1 Inc.
Crescent Real Estate Member LLC C
Gracechurch Services Corporation
Long Island Holding A LLC C
LTDL Holdings LLC C
Marbury Holdings LLC
Protium Finance I LLC C
Protium Master Mortgage LP B
Protium REO I LP B
Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC C
Sutton Funding LLC C
TPLL LLC C
TPProperty LLC C
US Secured Investments LLC C
– 1201 North Market Street, P.O. Box 1347 
Wilmington, DE19801 
Barclays Bank Delaware F, I
Procella Investments LLC C
Procella Investments No.1 LLC C
Procella Investments No.2 LLC C 
Procella Investments No.3 LLC C 
Procella Swaps LLC C
Verain Investments LLC
– 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington  DE 19808
Analog Analytics Inc
Protium Master Grantor Trust D
– 251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle County, 
Wilmington DE 19808 
Barclays Capital Equities Trading GP B
Barclays Capital Holdings Inc. G, H, I
Lagalla Investments LLC
Relative Value Holdings, LLC

45 Related undertakings continued

320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– 745 Seventh Avenue, New York NY 10019
Alynore Investments Limited Partnership B
Curve Investments GP B
HYMF, Inc.
Preferred Liquidity, LLC J
– CT Corporation System, One Corporate 
Center, Floor  11, Hartford CT 06103-3220 
Barclays Capital Inc.
– c/o RL&F Service Corp, One Rodney Square, 
10th Floor, Tenth and King Streets, 
Wilmington DE 19801
Analytical Trade Holdings LLC
Analytical Trade Investments LLC BB
– 100 South West Street, Wilmington DE 19801
Barclays Dryrock Funding LLC C
Wilmington Riverfront Receivables LLC J, K
– 15 East North Street, Dover DE 19801
Barclays Services LLC C
– CT Corporation System, 225 Hillsborough 
Street, Raleigh, NC 27603 
Barclays US GPF Inc.
– CT Corporation System, 350 North St. Paul  
Street, Dallas TX 75201
La Torretta Beverages LLC C
La Torretta Hospitality LLC C
La Torretta Operations LLC C
– 500 Forest Point Circle, Charlotte, North 
Carolina 28273 
Equifirst Corporation (in liquidation)
– Aon Insurance Managers (USA) Inc., 
76 St. Paul Street, Suite 500, Burlington, 
VT05401-4477
Barclays Insurance U.S. Inc.

Zimbabwe
– 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business 
Park, Mount Pleasant , Harare
Branchcall Computers (Pvt) Limited

Other Related Undertakings
Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings 
below are consolidated and the share capital 
disclosed comprises ordinary and/or common 
shares which are held by subsidiaries of the 
Group. The Group's overall ownership 
percentage is provided for each undertaking.
Other related undertakings  Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Barclaycard Funding PLC 75.00% J
Claas Finance Limited 51.00% K
PSA Credit Company Limited 
(in liquidation) 50.00% J, L
Barclays Covered Bond Funding LLP 50.00% B
– 1 Poultry, London,  
England, EC2R 8EJ
Igloo Regeneration (General Partner) 
Limited 25.00% L, Z
– 1 Robeson Way, Sharston Green 
Business Park, Manchester, M22 4SW
KDC Holdings Limited 37.41% EE, Z
– 3-5 London Road, Rainham, 
Kent, ME8 7RG
Trade Ideas Limited 20.00% Z
– Derby Training Centre, Ascot Drive, 
Derby, DE24 8GW
Develop Training Group Limited 65.47% CC, Z
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, 
Edinburgh, EH3 9BY
Equistone Founder Partner II L.P. 20.00% B, Z
Equistone Founder Partner III L.P. 35.00% B, Z
– Building 6 Chiswick Park,  
566 Chiswick High Road,  
London W4 5HR
Intelligent Processing Solutions 
Limited 19.50% Z
– Oak House, Ellesmere Port, 
Cheshire, CH65 9HQ
Elan Homes Holdings Limited 59.94% J, Z
– 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD
Barclays Alma Mater Management 
Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z
– 20-22 Bedford Row, London, WC1R 4JS
Cyber Defence Alliance Limited 25.00% E, Z
– 30 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7PG
Gresham Leasing March (3) Limited 30.00% Z
– 80 New Bond Street, London, W1S 1SB
GN Tower Limited 50.00% Z
GW City Ventures Limited 50.00% K, Z
– 5th Floor, 70 Gracechurch Street, 
London, EC3V 0XL
Camperdown UK Limited 74.00% J
– 5 North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, 
London, E14 4BB
BEIF Management Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z
– 2nd Floor, 110 Cannon Street, 
London, EC4N 6EU
Vectorcommand Limited 
(in liquidation) 30.39% J, K, Z
– 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU
Formerly H Limited (in liquidation) 70.32% J, Z
– Countryside House, The Warley Hill 
Business Park, The Drive, Brentwood, 
Essex, CM13 3AT
Woolwich Countryside Limited 50.00% O, Z
– Haberfield Old Moor Road, 
Wennington, Lancaster, LA2 8PD
Full House Holdings Limited 67.43% J, Z
– 6th Floor 60 Gracechurch Street, 
London, EC3V 0HR
BMC (UK) Limited 40.18% J, F, Z
– Central House, 124 High Street, 
Hampton Hill, Middlesex  TW12 1NS
Rio Laranja Holdings Limited 45.00% J, Z
– 13-15 York Buildings, 
London, WC2N 6JU
BGF Group Limited 24.40% Z

Other related undertakings  Percentage Note

Cayman Islands  
– Maples Corporate Services Limited, 
PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, 
South Church Street,  
Grand Cayman, KY1-1104
Cupric Canyon Capital LP 40.19% HH, Z
Southern Peaks Mining LP 55.76% HH, Z
Third Energy Holdings Limited 78.94% F, J, K, Z 

Germany
– Schopenhauerstraße 10, D-90409, 
Nurnberg 
Eschenbach Holding GmbH 21.70% Z

Indonesia
– Wisma GKBI 39th Floor, Suite 3906, 
Jl. Jend. Sudirman No.28,  
Jakarta, 10210 
PT Barclays Capital Securities 
Indonesia (in liquidation) 99.00%

Korea, Republic of
– 18th Floor, Daishin Finance Centre, 
343, Samil-daero,  Jung-go, Seoul
Woori BC Pegasus Securitization 
Specialty Co., Limited 70.00% W

Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
BNRI Limehouse No.1 Sarl 96.30% R
Partnership Investments S.à r.l. 33.40% I, J ,K ,L
Preferred Funding S.à r.l. 33.33% H
Preferred Investments S.à r.l. 33.33% H, I

Malta
– RS2 Buildings, Fort Road,  
Mosta MST 1859
RS2 Software PLC 18.25% Z

Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, Monte Carlo
Societe Civile Immobiliere 31 Avenue 
de la Costa 75.00%

Netherlands
– Alexanderstraat 18, 2514 JM, 
The Hague
Tulip Oil Holding BV 30.26% II, Z

South Africa
– 9 Elektron Road, Techno Park, 
Stellenbosch 7600
Imalivest Mineral Resources LP 69.88% J, Z

Sweden
– c/o ForeningsSparbanken AB, 
105 34 Stockholm



EnterCard Group AB 40.00% K, Z

United States of America
– 777 Main Street, Fort Worth TX 76102
CRE Diversified Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Crown Greenway Plaza SPV 
LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Crown Land Holding SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential LP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Resort Development LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent TRS Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
CREW Tahoe Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
DBL Texas Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Desert Mountain Development LLC 80.00% C, Z

45 Related undertakings continued

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 321

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Sh

areh
o

ld
er in

fo
rm

atio
n

Strateg
ic rep

o
rt

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
G

overn
an

ce

<Page End><Page Start>
Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

Other related undertakings  Percentage Note
Desert Mountain Properties Limited 
Partnership 74.40% B, Z
East West Resort Development VII LLC 80.00% C, Z
Mira Vista Development LLC 78.40% C, Z
Mountainside Partners LLC 80.00% C, Z
– 126 Riverfront Lane , 5th Floor, 
Drawer 2770, Avon  CO 81620
Blue River Land Company, LLC 39.55% C, Z
East West Resort Development IV, L.P., 
L.L.L.P. 71.11% B, Z
East West Resort Development VIII, 
L.P., L.L.L.P. 71.11% B, Z
East West Resort Development XIV, 
L.P., L.L.L.P. 33.52% B, Z
EWRD Summit Holding, L.P., L.L.L.P. 79.57% B, Z
EWRD Summit, LLC 79.10% C, Z
– 3001 Northstar Drive, C200, 
Truckee CA 96161
CREW Tahoe LLC 60.80% C, Z
East West Resort Development V, L.P., 
L.L.L.P. 74.75% B, Z
Gray's Station, LLC 56.96% C, Z
Home Run Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Mountain Properties, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Trailside Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Village Townhomes, LLC 56.93% C, Z
Old Greenwood Realty, Inc. 60.80% Z
Old Greenwood, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Tahoe Club Company, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Tahoe Mountain Resorts, LLC 60.82% C, Z
The Glades Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z
– Corporation Service Company, 
2711 Centreville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington DE 19808
Crescent Fresh Series B Hold Co. 80.00% Z
Mountainside Boulders, LLC 60.82% C, Z
MVWP Development LLC 30.40% C, Z
MVWP Investors LLC 60.80% C, Z
Stellar Residences, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Stellar Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z
– 1701 Wynkoop Street, Suite 140, 
Box 47, Denver, CO  80202
Central Platte Valley Management, LLC 51.78% C, Z
St. Charles Place, LLC 47.63% C, Z
The Park at One Riverfront, LLC 47.63% C, Z
Union Center LLC 51.78% C, Z
– Corporation Trust Company, 
Corporation Trust  Center, 1209 
Orange Street, Wilmington DE 19801
DG Solar Lessee II, LLC 50.00% C, Z
DG Solar Lessee, LLC 50.00% C, Z
VS BC Solar Lessee I LLC 50.00% C, Z
– East West Partners, Inc., 
126 Riverfront Lane, 5th Floor, 
Avon CO 81620
Tahoe Club Employee Company 60.80% Z
– 6600 Mira Vista Blvd., Fort Worth 
TX 76132
Mira Vista Golf Club, L.C. 76.83% Z
– 251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle 
County, Wilmington DE 19808 
Crescent Legacy LLC 80.00% C, Z
Surrey Funding Corporation 99.45%
Sussex Purchasing Corporation 99.45%
– 1415 Louisiana Street, Suite 1600, 
Houston, Texas, 77002
Sabine Oil & Gas Holdings, Inc. 23.25% Z

Subsidiaries by virtue of control
The related undertakings below are 
subsidiaries in accordance with s.1162 
Companies Act 2006 as Barclays can exercise 
dominant influence or control over them.
Subsidiaries by virtue of control  Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Oak Pension Asset Management 
Limited 00.00% Z
Water Street Investments Limited 00.00% Z

Cayman Islands
– PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, 
South Church Street, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1104
Hornbeam Limited 00.00% Z
Barclays US Holdings Limited 10.00% J

45 Related undertakings continued
Joint Ventures
The related undertakings below are Joint 
Ventures in accordance with s.18, Schedule 4, 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 and are proportionally consolidated.
Joint Ventures  Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– All Saints Triangle, Caledonian 
Road, London, N1 9UT
Vaultex UK Limited 50.00%
Joint management factors
The Joint Venture Board comprises two Barclays 
representative directors, two JV partner directors and 
three non-JV partner directors. The Board are responsible 
for setting the company strategy and budgets.

322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
Strateg
ic rep

ort

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 323

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

o
ld

er in
fo

rm
atio

n

Barclays shareholding
Shareholder information

Barclays understands the importance of the 
ordinary dividend for our shareholders. Barclays 
is therefore committed to maintaining an 
appropriate balance between total cash returns 
to shareholders, investment in the business, 
and maintaining a strong capital position. 
Going forward, Barclays intends to pay an 
annual ordinary dividend that takes into 
account these objectives and the medium-term 
earnings outlook of the Group. It is also the 
Board's intention to supplement the ordinary 
dividends with additional returns to 
shareholders as and when appropriate.

The Board notes that in determining any 
proposed distributions to shareholders, the 
Board will consider the expectation of servicing 
more senior securities. 

For 2018, Barclays anticipates resuming a total 
cash dividend of 6.5p, subject to regulatory 
approvals.

How do Barclays shareholders receive 
their dividends?
As at 31 December 2017, Barclays shareholders 
received their dividends in the following ways:

56.1% 
Direct to bank account

21.4% 
Cheque 

22.5%
Scrip Dividend Programme  

(new shares)

Save time and receive your dividends faster 
by choosing to have them paid directly into 
your bank or building society account
It is easy to set up and your money will be in 
your bank account on the dividend payment 
date. If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can 
provide your bank or building society details 
quickly and easily over the telephone using 
the Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you 
hold more than 2,500 shares, please contact 
Equiniti for details of how to change your 
payment instruction.

Scrip Dividend Programme
Shareholders can choose to have their 
dividends reinvested in new ordinary Barclays 
shares through the Scrip Dividend Programme.

More information, including the terms and 
conditions and application form, are available 
on our website.

��To�find�out�more,�contact�Equiniti�or�
visit home.barclays/dividends

Donations to charity
We launched a Share Dealing Service in 
October 2017 aimed at shareholders with 
relatively small shareholdings for whom it 
might otherwise be uneconomical to deal. 
One option open to shareholders was to 
donate their sale proceeds to ShareGift.  
As a result of this initiative, more than 
£61,000 was donated in 2017, taking the 
total donated since 2015 to over £299,000.

Returning funds to shareholders
Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash  
their Shares Not Taken Up (SNTU) cheque 
following the Rights Issue in September 
2013. In 2017, we continued the tracing 
process to reunite these shareholders with 
their SNTU monies and any unclaimed 
dividends. By the end of the year, we had 
returned over £4.5m to our shareholders.

H
o

rs
e 

G
u

ar
d

s 
R

oa
d

Ch
ar

in
g

Cr
os

s

Waterloo

Victoria

St. James's Park

St. James's Park

Green Park

Lambeth
North

Westminster Bridge

Lambeth BridgeHorseferry Road

Br
oa

d 
Sa

nc
tu

ar
y

St
ra

nd

Victoria Street

Pa
ll M

all

Th
e M

all

W
es

tm
in

st
er

Pa
rl

ia
m

en
t 

St
re

et
A

b
in

g
d

o
n

 S
tr

ee
t

V
ic

to
ri

a 
Em

ba
n

km
en

t

R
iv

er
 T

h
am

es
R

iv
er

 T
h

am
es

River Thames

QEII
Centre

Key dates 
5 April 2018
Final dividend payment date

26 April 2018
Q1 Results Announcement

1 May 2018
Annual General Meeting, at 10.00am

17 September 2018
Interim dividend payment date

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
This year's AGM will be held at the QEII Centre, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on Tuesday, 
1 May 2018 at 10.00am.

The Chairman and Chief Executive will update 
shareholders on our performance in 2017 and 
our goals for 2018. Shareholders will also have 
the opportunity to ask the Board questions at 
the meeting.

��You�can�find�out�more�at� 
home.barclays/agm

Keep your personal details up to date
Please remember to tell Equiniti if:
■■ you move
■■ you need to update your bank or building 

society details.

If you are a Shareview member, you can 
update your bank or building society account 
or address details online. If you hold 2,500 
shares or less, you can update details quickly 
and easily over the telephone using the 
Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you hold 
more than 2,500 shares you will need to write 
to Equiniti. You must provide a copy of your 
share�certificate,�Sharestore�statement�or�
most�recent�dividend�confirmation.�If�these�
are not available, you will need to provide a 
copy of a utility bill or bank statement dated 
in the last three months.

Dividends 
The�final�dividend�for�the�year�ended�
31 December 2017 will be 2.0p per share, 
making the 2017 total dividend 3.0p.

<Page End><Page Start>
324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport

Note
a Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm (UK time) Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.

Managing your shares online

Shareview
Barclays shareholders can go online to 
manage�their�shareholding�and�find�out�about�
Barclays performance by joining Shareview.
Through Shareview, you:
■■ will receive the latest updates from Barclays 

direct to your email
■■ can update your address and bank details 

online
■■ can vote in advance of general meetings.

To join Shareview, please follow these three 
easy steps:

Step 1 Go to portfolio.shareview.co.uk

Step 2   Register for electronic 
communications by following the 
instructions on screen

Step 3  You will be sent an activation code in 
the post the next working day

Useful contact details
Equiniti

The Barclays share register is 
maintained by Equiniti. If you have any 

questions about your Barclays shares, please 
contact Equiniti by visiting shareview.co.uk 

Equiniti 
 0371 384 2055a  
(in the UK)

 +44 121 415 7004  (from overseas)
 0371 384 2255

a  
(for the hearing impaired in the UK)

 +44 121 415 7028  (for the hearing impaired  
from overseas)

 Aspect House, Spencer Road,  
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays PLC 
shares which are traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange. ADRs carry prices, and pay 
dividends, in US Dollars.

If you have any questions about 
ADRs, please contact J.P.Morgan: 

jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com or visit 
adr.com

J.P.Morgan Shareholder Services  
 +1 800 990 1135  
(toll free in US and Canada)

 +1 651 453 2128  (outside the US and Canada)
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.  
PO Box 64504 
St Paul 
MN 55164-0504  
USA

Shareholder Relations
To give us your feedback or if you 
have any questions, please contact:  

privateshareholderrelations@barclays.com

Shareholder Relations 
Barclays PLC 
1 Churchill Place  
London E14 5HP

Share price
Information on the Barclays share 
price and other share price tools are 

available at: home.barclays/investorrelations

Alternative formats
Shareholder documents can 
be provided in large print, 
audio CD or Braille free of 
charge by calling Equiniti. 
0371 384 2055a (in the UK) 
+44 121 415 7004 (from 
overseas)

Audio versions of the 
Strategic Report will also be 
available at the AGM

Shareholder security
Shareholders should be wary of any cold 
calls with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure 
techniques to lure shareholders into 
high-risk investments or scams. You should 
treat any unsolicited calls with caution.

Please�keep�in�mind�that�firms�authorised�
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
are unlikely to contact you out of the blue. 
You should consider getting independent 
financial�or�professional�advice�from�
someone unconnected to the respective 
firm�before�you�hand�over�any�money.

Report a scam
If you suspect that you have been 
approached by fraudsters please tell the 
FCA using the share fraud reporting form 
at fca.org.uk/scams. You can also call the 
FCA Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or through 
Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.

Barclays shareholding
Shareholder information

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes
The terms Barclays or Group refer to Barclays PLC together 
with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the income 
statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 
2017 to the corresponding 12 months of 2016 and balance 
sheet analysis as at 31 December 2017 with comparatives 
relating to 31 December 2016. The abbreviations ‘£m' and 
‘£bn' represent millions and thousands of millions of Pounds 
Sterling respectively; the abbreviations ‘$m' and ‘$bn' represent 
millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively; 
and the abbreviations ‘€m' and ‘€bn' represent millions and 
thousands of millions of Euros respectively.  

There are a number of key judgement areas, for example 
impairment calculations, which are based on models and 
which are subject to ongoing adjustment and modifications. 
Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at 
the given point in time.  

Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not 
defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are explained in the 
results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/results.  

The information in this announcement, which was approved by 
the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018, does not comprise 
statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the year ended  
31 December 2017, which includes certain information required 
for the Joint Annual Report on Form 20-F of Barclays PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC to the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) and which contain an unqualified audit 
report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 (which 
does not make any statements under Section 498 of the 
Companies Act 2006) will be delivered to the Registrar  
of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the 
Companies  Act 2006.  

These results will be furnished as a Form 20-F to the SEC as 
soon as practicable following their publication. Once furnished 
with the SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will also be available 
from the Barclays Investor Relations website at home.barclays/
results and from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov  

Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and 
regularly meets with investors via formal road-shows and other 
ad hoc meetings. Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays 
expects that from time to time over the coming quarter it will 
meet with investors globally to discuss these results and other 
matters relating to the Group.  

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays' management believes that the non-IFRS performance 
measures included in this document provide valuable 
information to the readers of the financial statements as they 
enable the reader to identify a more consistent basis for 
comparing the business' performance between financial 
periods, and provide more detail concerning the elements of 
performance which the managers of these businesses are most 
directly able to influence or are relevant for an assessment of 
the Group. They also reflect an important aspect of the way in 
which operating targets are defined and performance is 
monitored by Barclays' management. However, any non-IFRS 
performance measures in this document are not a substitute 
for IFRS measures and readers should consider the IFRS 
measures as well. Refer to the pages 223 to 225 of the Barclays 
PLC Annual Report 2017 for further information and 
calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included 
throughout this document, and the most directly comparable 
IFRS measures. 

Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. Barclays 
cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a 
guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other 
financial condition or performance measures could differ 
materially from those contained in the forward-looking 
statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified 
by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current 
facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as 
‘may', ‘will', ‘seek', ‘continue', ‘aim', ‘anticipate', ‘target', ‘projected', 
‘expect', ‘estimate', ‘intend', ‘plan', ‘goal', ‘believe', ‘achieve' or 
other words of similar meaning. Examples of forward-looking 
statements include, among others, statements or guidance 
regarding or relating to the Group's future financial position, 
income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, business 
strategy, structural reform, capital, leverage and other regulatory 
ratios, payment of dividends (including dividend payout ratios 
and expected payment strategies), projected levels of growth in 
the banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, 
any commitments and targets and the impact of any regulatory 
deconsolidation resulting from the sell down of the Group's 
interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited, estimates of capital 
expenditures and plans and objectives for future operations, 
projected employee numbers, IFRS 9 impacts and other 
statements that are not historical fact. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to future events and circumstances. These may be 
affected by changes in legislation, the development of standards 
and interpretations under International Financial Reporting 
Standards including the implementation of IFRS 9, evolving 
practices with regard to the interpretation and application of 
accounting and regulatory standards, the outcome of current 
and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations, 
future levels of conduct provisions, the policies and actions of 
governmental and regulatory authorities, geopolitical risks and 
the impact of competition. In addition, factors including (but not 
limited to) the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and 
other regulatory rules (including with regard to the future 
structure of the Group) applicable to past, current and future 
periods; UK, US, Africa, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and 
business conditions; the effects of continued volatility in credit 
markets; market related risks such as changes in interest rates 
and foreign exchange rates; effects of changes in valuation of 
credit market exposures; changes in valuation of issued 
securities; volatility in capital markets; changes in credit ratings 
of any entities within the Group or any securities issued by such 
entities; the potential for one or more countries exiting the 
Eurozone; the implications of the exercise by the United Kingdom 
of Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon and the disruption that may 
result in the UK and globally from the withdrawal of the United 
Kingdom from the European Union and the success of future 
acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions. A 
number of these influences and factors are beyond the Group's 
control. As a result, the Group's actual future results, dividend 
payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially 
from the plans, goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the 
Group's forward-looking statements. Additional risks and factors 
which may impact the Group's future financial condition and 
performance are identified in our filings with the SEC (including, 
without limitation, our Annual Report on form 20-F for the fiscal 
year ended 31 December 2017), which will be available on the 
SEC's website at www.sec.gov  

Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and 
regulations of the United Kingdom and the United States in 
relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no 
obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.  

This report is printed on Cocoon Preprint made from  
100% FSC® Recycled certified fibre sourced from de-inked 
post-consumer waste. The printer and the manufacturing mill 
are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management 
Systems Standard and both are FSC® certified. By printing this 
publication on Cocoon Preprint, the environmental impact was 
reduced by: 5,865 kg of landfill, 867 kg CO

2
 and greenhouse 

gases, 171,542 litres of water, 10,078 kWh of energy and 
9,530 kg of wood. 

Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in 
accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology. Calculations 
are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used 
versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European 
BREF data (virgin fibre paper) available.

<Page End><Page Start>
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP 
© Barclays Bank PLC 2018 9915784
Registered in England. Registered No: 48839
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn fhflondon.co.uk

Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2017

Front cover image

Out of Africa, into new territory
After more than 150 years on the continent, the decision to 
sell down Barclays' investment in Africa was not an easy one. 
But with people like Win Chung and Sophia Aluko working 
hard to ensure a thoughtful separation, we broke new ground 
for Barclays in 2017.

Positioned for growth,  
sharing and success

B
arclays PLC

 A
n

n
u

al R
eport 2017

<Page End>