<Read from Text><Page Start>
Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2016

Building the bank  
of the future

<Page End><Page Start>
The Detailed Report
Within the Annual Report, these disclosures inform  
of Barclays 2016 performance. 

The content meets, and where insightful, goes beyond  
minimal regulatory reporting standards.

Governance
Governance contents 49
Who we are 51
What we did 54
How we comply 84
Other statutory information 91
People 95
Remuneration report 99

Risk review
Risk review contents 134
Material existing and emerging risks 136
Risk management 145
Risk performance 163
Supervision and regulation 229

Financial review
Financial review contents 237
Key performance indicators 238
Consolidated summary income statement 240
Income statement commentary 241
Consolidated summary balance sheet 242
Balance sheet commentary 243
Analysis of results by business 244

Financial statements
Financial statements contents 267
Consolidated financial statements 277
Notes to the financial statements 284

Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

The Strategic Report
An overview of our 2016 performance, a focus on  
our strategic direction, and a review of the businesses  
underpinning our strategy.

Completing the restructuring of Barclays
02 Chairman's letter
04 Chief Executive's review

06 Operating environment
08 Our business model
10 Our strategy
13 Risk management
16 Our key performance indicators

A review of our operational performance
26 Barclays UK

28 Personal Banking
29 Barclaycard Consumer UK
30 Wealth, Entrepreneurs and Business Banking

32 Barclays International
34 Corporate and Investment Bank
35 Consumer, Cards and Payments

36 Non-Core and Africa

Overview of governance and  
financial performance
38 Governance overview 

41 Viability statement

42 Our culture and our people
44 Remuneration framework
48 Financial performance

For shareholder information and contact details see page 375.

What's inside this report

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 
22 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by the Chairman. 

Report of the Auditor The Auditor's report on the full accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2016 was unqualified, and their statement under 
section 496 (whether the Strategic Report and the Directors' report are 
consistent with the accounts) of the Companies Act 2006 was unqualified.

Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures and forward-looking statements
Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures 
included in this document provide valuable information to the readers of 
the financial statements. This document also contains certain forward-
looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. For full details on 
Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures, and forward-looking statements 
used within this document, please see the back cover.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 01

Completing  
the restructuring  
of Barclays

Where can I find out more?
You can learn about Barclays'  

strategy, our businesses and performance,  
approach to governance and risk online,  
where latest and archived annual  
and strategic reports are available  
to view or download. 

For further information and a fuller understanding of the results and the 
state of affairs of the Group, please refer to the full suite of documents at 
home.barclays/annualreport

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
02 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Chairman's letter

While much is yet to be done, business restructuring 
will largely be completed in 2017...

Summary

Today the Group is smaller, safer, more 
focused, less leveraged, better capitalised 
and highly liquid, with the customer at the 
centre of the business. The sale of Africa, 
the settlement of legacy conduct matters 
and the exit of Non-Core will improve this 
significantly going forward.

For further information, see home.barclays/annualreport  

2016 was pivotal for Barclays, which is engaged in one of the largest 
restructurings in history. 

Jes Staley has had an impressive first year. Initially, he set out a new 
strategic agenda for the Group as a leading UK and transatlantic bank, 
with the customer at its heart, placing it at the forefront of our industry, 
and re-embracing banking as a profession.

Under his leadership, the Core business was redefined and reorganised 
in preparation for structural reform, together with plans to bring its 
returns above hurdle rates. It was decided to exit Africa and accelerate 
the reduction in Non-Core. The senior management team was 
strengthened with key internal and external appointments, and plans 
put in place to achieve successful structural reform in the UK and the 
US, as well as a major medium-term initiative to embrace digital 
technology, to upgrade our systems architecture, to become fully cyber 
ready and improve our control effectiveness.

While much is yet to be done, including the full transfer of business 
to the UK ring-fenced bank during the first half of 2018, business 
restructuring will largely be completed in 2017, and subject to the future 
impact of a number of legacy conduct issues, this should allow the 
Group to return to a good and more stable financial performance in 
2018, and possibly in the late months of 2017.

The year itself saw external surprises, including the decision by the UK 
to exit the EU, a consequent decline in Sterling, as well as a new political 
climate emerging in the UK and the US. We also faced regulatory 
pressure to increase capital levels, and the need to improve further our 
control effectiveness and corporate culture.

Notwithstanding such pressures, I'm pleased with the progress that 
we have made. The Group implemented its geographic refocus around 
the UK and North America, while retaining international coverage for 
our clients. The business was reorganised into Barclays International 
(corporate/investment banking and international consumer) and 
Barclays UK (local consumer, small business, UK wealth and credit cards) 
in preparation for structural reform and to leverage the core competitive 
advantages of the Group. New senior management joined in Risk, 
Corporate and Investment Banking and Operations and Technology, and 
a new Group Executive Committee was constituted, with Jes investing 
heavily in its cohesion and effectiveness.

Overall, the Group returned to bottom-line profitability in the year, with 
attributable profits up £2.0bn and with basic earnings per share of 10.4p. 
Capital was strengthened, and the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio improved 
by 100bps to 12.4%. The Cost: Income ratio improved from 84% to 76%. 

The Core business had a good year with attributable profit doubling to 
£3.4bn, together with an equivalent improvement in Return on Tangible 
Equity to 8.4% and basic earnings per share of 20.5p.

This was offset significantly by the £1.9bn loss (11.3p per share) 
associated with the run down of Non-Core, which saw its risk weighted 
assets reduce by 41% to £32bn with transactions announced in France, 
Italy, Spain, Portugal and in Asia. Given this progress, we now expect the 
run down of Non-Core to be completed six months earlier than planned, 
at the end of the first half of 2017. This will leave an anticipated residual 
£25bn of RWAs that will be re-absorbed by the Core businesses.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 03

A major decision was made to sell down our 62% shareholding in 
Barclays Africa Group Ltd (BAGL) and the process began with a 
reduction to just over 50%. This investment became non-viable 
economically under current regulatory capital rules, and the UK bank 
levy. BAGL had a reasonable year in 2016, although profits were slightly 
down on 2015. Our shareholding benefitted from an improvement in 
the exchange rate and an increase in its stock price.

From these statistics, we can see the merits of improving further 
the Core return, the elimination of the drag from Non-Core, the sale 
of Africa, and further progressing the resolution of historical 
conduct matters.

It is worth stepping back to remind shareholders of the enormous 
changes that are taking place at Barclays. At our peak in 2008 we had:

■■ £2.1trn in assets against £1.2trn today, down over 40% and declining
■■ shareholders' equity was £36.6bn, and is now £58.4bn, up 60%
■■ balance sheet leverage (total assets to ordinary shareholders' funds) 

was a stretched 56 times, and has been reduced to 21 times
■■ shareholders' capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets was 

8.5% and is now almost double at 16%.

Today therefore, the Group is smaller, safer, more focused, less 
leveraged, better capitalised and highly liquid, with the customer at 
the centre of the business. The sale of Africa, the settlement of legacy 
conduct matters and the exit of Non-Core will improve this significantly 
going forward.

Despite this progress, significant challenges remain. The interest rate 
and growth environment remains subdued in our core markets. Our Core 
business overall is still operating below our cost of equity. In the near 
term, we need to exit Non-Core and complete the sale of Africa at the 
best financial outcome possible. UK and US structural reform also needs 
to be implemented, with a major event involving the transfer of business 
from Barclays Bank PLC to the ring-fenced bank. A number of potentially 
material legacy conduct matters need to be resolved at acceptable cost. 
A way forward to capture the opportunity and mitigate the risk of the 
UK's exit from the EU needs to be found, depending on the final 
international agreement. Finally, we need to reach our required 
regulatory capital and desired control levels. I am confident we have 
the capacity to work our way through these.

Looking forward therefore, a great deal has changed at Barclays and 
much will change going forward. We are a major full-service player in 
the UK, have leadership in several important segments and are the digital 
banking leader. We also have a major corporate, investment banking 
and cards presence in the US. For example, our cards and consumer 
and payments businesses there, now produce more revenues than our 
equivalent UK business. We also retain a focused international presence 
to serve our customers internationally and bring overseas customers to 
our core markets. 

 12.4%
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

2016 CET1 ratio up 100bps vs 2015 
(2015: 11.4%)

 £58.4bn
Shareholders' equity

2016 shareholders' equity up 7% vs 2015
(2015: £54.5bn)

This foundation gives us a new beginning and subject to the resolution 
of legacy conduct matters and the satisfactory execution of the 
near-term agenda. I genuinely believe we can see the light at the end of 
the tunnel. Restructuring will largely be completed in 2017, and subject 
to legacy matters, this should allow the Group to return to a good and 
more stable financial performance in 2018, and possibly in the late 
months of 2017. This augurs well for completion of the turnaround 
at Barclays, for future value creation, and at the appropriate time, 
a reconsideration of the dividend.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Board for their 
contribution to our company. I am also grateful for the enormous 
progress made by our senior management team, and thank our staff 
across the organisation for coming every day to serve our customers, 
without whom we would not have an enterprise. Finally, I would pay 
respect to our shareholders for their ongoing patience and support.

John McFarlane
Chairman 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
04 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Chief Executive's review

…positioning ourselves for growth while delivering 
a positive impact on society.

Summary

We will stay wedded to a fundamental 
principle of finance: earn and maintain the 
trust of your customers and clients. Just as 
327 years ago when we were founded, 
Barclays will be known for the way in which 
we do business, the integrity with which we 
operate, having a positive impact on society, 
and delivering shareholder value.

For further information, see home.barclays/annualreport  

A year ago we laid out our intention to accelerate the restructuring 
of Barclays and refocus our business as a transatlantic, consumer, 
corporate and investment bank, anchored in the two financial capitals 
of the world, London and New York. 

I am pleased to report that the strategic actions we have undertaken in 
2016 have allowed us to make strong progress against this agenda, 
including: reorganising our business into Barclays UK and Barclays 
International; renewing our commitment to operate a leading global 
corporate and investment bank; reducing our stake in Barclays Africa, 
over time, to a non-consolidated level; and accelerating the run down 
of our Non-Core assets.

Barclays UK and Barclays International are doing well, our Corporate and 
Investment Bank has solidified its position in the bulge bracket, our 
Non-Core run-down is ahead of schedule, and we expect to close that 
unit in the middle of 2017.  We are also on track to complete the planned 
sell-down of our Barclays Africa stake to a non-consolidated level in due 
course. Certain legacy conduct issues remain and we intend to make 
further progress on them. 

In short, we have accomplished a lot in a year, and I am thankful to 
each and every one of our colleagues who have made this possible. 
Their efforts mean that, in 2017, we can begin to move on from the 
restructuring of Barclays, shifting our focus solely to the future, and 
in particular to how we can generate attractive, sustainable, and 
distributable, returns for you, our shareholders. 

This means increasing management focus on Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, the future of your firm. Together, they encompass a 
diverse set of market-leading consumer and wholesale businesses. 
From retail and business banking operations and our merchant acquiring 
business in the UK; to our corporate and investment banking and 
cards businesses in the US. Barclays UK and Barclays International are 
diversified by product, by customer and client, by currency and by 
geography. We deliver everything from institutional advisory to 
international cards and payments; from equity capital markets to 
corporate lending; from macro markets execution to mortgages. 

 We have accomplished a lot in a year, and 
I am thankful to each and every one of our 
colleagues who have made this possible. 
Their efforts mean that, in 2017, we can begin 
to move on from the restructuring of Barclays, 
shifting our focus solely to the future, and in 
particular to how we can generate attractive, 
sustainable, and distributable, returns for you, 
our shareholders.  

It is worth noting that just over half of our income in 2016 was from 
our consumer businesses, and just under half from our wholesale 
businesses. This balance between the two is a huge strength for 
Barclays, giving us opportunities for growth across a wide waterfront, 
and resilience in earnings if one side of the mix comes under pressure. 
I firmly believe that this model gives us the capacity to generate strong 
sustainable returns for you, our shareholders, through any cycle, 
especially with the reinvestment capacity we expect to generate 
through cost savings from the single core operational foundation 
that we are building. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 05

Operational and technological strength is going to be a key competitive 
advantage for any global bank in the future. And so our intent is to build 
Barclays on a foundation of world class core operations and technology. 
This will strengthen our core processes, provide our businesses with 
the ability to use data in new and innovative ways, allowing us to 
fundamentally rethink the way we run Barclays, and how we serve 
our customers and clients. Upon this foundation, we can generate 
efficiency from scale while at the same time ensuring that we deliver 
world-class customer experience which is key to driving loyalty and 
long-term growth. 

As we complete the restructuring of our bank we will stay wedded to 
a fundamental principle of finance: earn and maintain the trust of your 
customers and clients. Just as 327 years ago when we were founded, 
Barclays will be known for the way in which we do business, the integrity 
with which we operate, having a positive impact on society, and 
delivering shareholder value.  

We will do that through providing great service, as well as playing our 
full part in the communities in which we live and work. I am very proud 
in particular of how, following the EU referendum last June, Barclays 
continued to be a constructive partner to our customers and clients, and 
to the Government, as we dealt with the initial impact of that decision.

We stayed truly ‘open for business' throughout 2016, lending £3.6bn to 
small and medium-sized businesses in the UK. We wrote nearly £19bn of 
mortgages to almost 90,000 households across the country, including to 
over 18,000 first-time buyers. We processed some £260bn of payments 
for consumers and businesses in the UK, with £1 in every 3 spent on 
cards going through our systems. We enhanced our customers' 
experiences, by introducing market-leading innovations like voice 
security, contactless cash, a new direct investing platform, and our 
‘collect' cash management service for businesses.  

I was particularly proud when we became the first major UK bank to 
run TV advertising on how people can protect themselves from fraud. 
We also helped to up-skill 1.7 million people through a range of 
regional partnerships and our LifeSkills programme. More than 
43,000 colleagues also contributed 212,000 hours of time volunteering 
for a range of charities and causes. 

Our people, and their commitment to Barclays' customers and clients, 
are the reason why I have such confidence in our capacity to realise our 
potential as a company. Regardless of role or location, seniority or 
business unit, I am continually amazed by the talent that we have within 
Barclays and the dedication people show to this institution. That 
dedication is one of the company's strongest assets, and it is because 
of it that bright years lie ahead for our bank. I look forward to discussing 
this future with you when we meet at our AGM.

James E. Staley 
Group Chief Executive

Barclays UK

For further information, see pages 26 to 27

Barclays International

For further information, see pages 32 to 33

Personal Banking

For further information, see page 28

Corporate and Investment Bank

For further information, see page 34

Barclaycard Consumer UK

For further information, see page 29

Consumer, Cards and Payments

For further information, see page 35

Non-Core and Africa

For further information, see page 36

Wealth, Entrepreneurs and Business Banking

For further information, see page 30

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
Summary

As a consumer, corporate and investment 
bank with operations around the world, 
Barclays is impacted by a wide range of 
macroeconomic, political, regulatory and 
accounting, technological, social and 
environmental developments. We continue 
to live in a period of significant change and 
uncertainty, which requires us to be vigilant 
in our review and assessment of the 
operating environment and as nimble as 
possible in the delivery of our strategy.

Global economic growth has been modest in recent years and 2016 
was characterised by ongoing uncertainty with periods of volatility in 
global markets and a continuation of the low interest rate environment. 
A low growth, low interest rate environment makes income growth 
more challenging.

We experienced significant developments in the global political 
environment in 2016, including the UK's vote to leave the EU in June 
and the presidential election in the US in November. Significant policy 
uncertainty remains around the implications of these events and there 
is further potential political change in 2017 with several major European 
countries holding elections. We remain alert to the risks, including those 
posed by policy-induced disruptions of global trade and investment, 
as well as the impact of current and potential geopolitical tensions. 
However, we do not see these events impacting the broad direction of 
our strategy set out in March 2016 to be a leading transatlantic bank 
with global reach.

Over recent years a significant objective of change in financial regulation 
has been to create a stronger banking environment through enhancing 
capital, liquidity and funding in the sector. A sounder banking 
environment has been further supported by an increased focus on 
stress testing, with the UK regulatory authorities completing their 
third comprehensive stress testing of the sector in November 2016. 
A key element of the regulatory agenda, known as Structural Reform, 
requires banks to ‘ring-fence' certain activities and these requirements, 
particularly in the UK and US, were reflected in our strategy update in 
March 2016. The implementation of these changes requires significant 
focus and we continue to execute our approach in accordance with 
regulatory timelines. An additional consideration relates to future 
accounting changes, specifically the introduction of IFRS9 in 2018 
which will see significant change in the accounting for impairment.

Regulatory scrutiny around conduct remains in sharp focus and we 
continue to embed a conduct-focused culture across the organisation, 
through the delivery of our strategy, in order to drive positive outcomes 
for all our stakeholders. We are also working to put legacy conduct 
issues behind us and the FCA's proposed deadline of the end of June 
2019 for PPI complaints, although not yet confirmed, is a significant 
development.

Technological change continues at pace, significantly impacting 
customer expectations and leading to the ongoing review of established 
banking operating models and systems. 

 One of the key benefits of digitisation  
and the growth in mobile banking has been 
improved customer and client experiences  
as transactions and interactions become  
faster and more convenient.  

However, the rapid speed of innovation also presents challenges. 
We have seen agile, digital players entering the market while new 
avenues for increasingly sophisticated fraudulent and criminal activity 
have been created. We continue to develop new technology and invest in 
digital and mobile capabilities to improve and differentiate our offering, 
while remaining constantly vigilant to, and investing in, fraud prevention, 
cyber risk, IT security and the appropriate management of data.

06 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Operating environment

Our decision making considers developments  
in the external environment…

<Page End><Page Start>
During 2016 there has been activity to further the financial sector's 
understanding of the potential financial, operational and strategic 
implications of climate change. In addition, there has been an increase 
in the level of interest in companies' responses to climate change, 
largely driven by the ratification of the UN Climate Change Conference 
requirements and publication of draft recommendations by the 
Financial Stability Board's Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures for annual reports. 

Developments in the external environment present both 
opportunities and risks. Without active risk management to 
address these external factors our long-term goals could be 

adversely impacted. Our approach to risk management and material 
existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance are 
outlined in the Risk Review section on page 137.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 07

The Blockchain revolution in trade finance
Barclays and innovative start-up company Wave became the first 
to execute a global trade transaction using blockchain technology. 

The new blockchain based system developed by Wave, a company 
which went through the Barclays Accelerator programme in New 
York, uses distributed ledger technology to ensure that all parties 
can see, transfer title and transmit shipping documents and other 
original trade documentation through a secure decentralised 
network. The new system could therefore speed up trade 
transactions, reduce costs for companies around the world and 
reduce the risk of documentary fraud.

The letter of credit transaction between Ornua (formerly the Irish 
Dairy Board) and Seychelles Trading Company was the first to have 
trade documentation handled on the new Wave platform.

 For further information, see newsroom.barclays.co.uk/r/3396/barclays_and_wave_complete_world_first_blockchain_trade

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
We aim to provide superior services to  
help customers and clients create, grow  
and protect wealth in a sustainable way

Barclays' customers and clients include:  
individuals, small and medium-sized businesses, corporates, 
financial institutions and banks, and institutions and governments

We offer:

■■ a safe place to save, invest and manage cash and payments
■■ funding for purchases and growth
■■ management of business and financial risks
■■ financial and business support.

We draw on the following to  
support our activities and deliver  
value to our stakeholders:
■■ the strength and reputation of our brand –  
serving customers and clients for over 325 years

■■ a strong, well-funded and diversified balance sheet
■■ customer and client relationships
■■ our geographic focus: firmly anchored in the two financial 
centres of London and New York, with global reach

■■ a track record of successfully innovating for customers and clients
■■ the skills and expertise of our people and the shared values 
which inform the way we work and how we act.

08 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

Barclays PLC Group operates via two 
clearly defined divisions – Barclays UK and 
Barclays International – with a diversified 
business model that we believe helps to 
enhance our resilience to changes in the 
external environment.
For further information on our divisions see:

Barclays UK – pages 26 to 31 
Barclays International – pages 32 to 35

Our business model

…we create value for our stakeholders and deliver  
broader economic benefits to society…

<Page End><Page Start>
We aim to deliver broad value from  
the way we do business, including: 

■■ superior service to enable customers and clients  
to achieve their ambitions

■■ challenging and fulfilling careers for our people in  
a values-driven organisation

■■ long-term sustainable returns for our investors
■■ we work together with regulators to help reduce risk  
in the industry and provide a more sustainable  
banking landscape over the long term

■■ employment and growth in the economies in which we operate
■■ engagement with governments and society to address  
societal issues and needs.

We support our stakeholders via a 
commercially successful business that 
generates long-term sustainable returns
■■ Our services generate income via net interest income and 
non-interest income, including fees and commissions as well as 
trading and investment income through our wholesale activities. 

■■ We are a large financial institution and provide diversification 
by business line, geography and customer; supported by a 
conservative risk profile. We believe this diversification and 
prudence enhances our resilience.

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 09

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
10 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

Our goal is to become the bank of choice by 
providing superior services to customers and 
clients and supporting our stakeholders via 
a commercially successful business that 
generates long-term sustainable returns.

The strategy of Barclays PLC Group is to build on our strength as a 
transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank, anchored in 
our two homes markets of the UK and US, with global reach. Our two 
clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, provide 
diversification by business line, geography and customer, enhancing 
financial resilience and helping to contribute to the delivery of consistent 
returns through the business cycle. We have a strong core business 
with exciting prospects, well positioned to deliver long-term value for 
our shareholders.

Consistent with the objective of delivering long-term sustainable value 
for all our stakeholders, we have developed our Shared Growth Ambition 
– our approach to citizenship and the sustainability of the business 
model we operate. The aim is to make decisions and do business that 
provides our clients and customers, and the communities which we 
serve, with access to a prosperous future. 

The delivery of our strategy is underpinned by the energy, commitment 
and passion of our people, and we are clear on our common purpose: 
to help people achieve their ambitions, in the right way. Our shared 
values inform the way we work and how we act, guiding the choices 
we make every day.

Building the Barclays of the future
In March 2016 we announced the following actions to materially 
progress our restructuring and lay the foundations for increased stability 
and improved performance:

■■ the creation of two clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, consistent with the regulatory requirements of 
ring-fencing in the UK

■■ the sell-down of our 62.3% stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited 
(BAGL) to a non-controlling, regulatory deconsolidated, position

■■ a one-time increase to Barclays Non-Core, with a plan to accelerate 
the run down.

The priorities that emerged from our March 2016 announcement 
can be broadly summarised as:

■■ simplifying our core business
■■ accelerating the run down of our Non-Core operations
■■ continuing to address our remaining legacy conduct issues and 

improving our control environment.

Simplifying our core business
Our two divisions represent a balanced business mix that we believe 
helps to enhance our resilience to developments in the external 
environment, while remaining focused on helping our customers 
and clients achieve their ambitions. 

Barclays UK is our UK consumer and business bank differentiated 
by scale and proven digital capability. Barclays UK will become the 
ring-fenced bank for the UK during 2018, providing transactional, 
lending and investment products and services to over 24 million 
Personal, Wealth and Business Banking customers and clients. 
For further information on Barclays UK's performance, please 
see page 26.

Our strategy

…where success for us is to be a leading,  
diversified, transatlantic bank.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 11

Barclays International is our diversified transatlantic wholesale and 
consumer bank which will be housed within Barclays Bank PLC, the 
future non-ring-fenced bank. We seek to compete in markets where 
we have the competitive advantage and provide best-in-class service to 
our clients and customers. On 1 July 2016 our US Intermediate Holding 
Company (IHC) became operational, as part of Barclays International. 
For further information on Barclays International's performance, please 
see page 32.

Our objective is to maintain solid investment grade ratings for our 
rated entities.

Barclays UK and Barclays International will be supported by a Group 
Service Company, a subsidiary which houses the majority of Barclays' 
Group Functions and the Chief Operating Office, which includes 
Operations and Technology.  

Further details on the structure of the Group under Structural Reform 
can be found in the Supervision and Regulation section on page 236. 

We are also reducing our stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited to a 
non-controlling, regulatory deconsolidated position, subject to required 
approvals. Having completed the first sell-down, to 50.1%, in 2016, we 
expect to continue to reduce our ownership and will execute this change 
in our investment responsibly. 

Accelerating the run down of our Non-Core operations
Our Non-Core businesses act as a significant drag on Group profitability 
and exiting these businesses will enable us to focus on a simplified 
Group, centred on our key areas of strength. Over the year we have 
continued to run down our Non-Core business, reducing risk weighted 
assets and strengthening our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio in the process. 

We have made strong progress in executing our strategy 
and are fully committed to the early closure of Non-Core in 
June 2017. For further details please refer to the Non-Core 

Performance Review on page 36.

Continuing to address remaining legacy conduct issues and 
improving our control environment
We are working hard to resolve our remaining legacy conduct matters 
as soon as is practical, while improving our control environment. 

We aspire to be one of the world's most respected and well-regarded 
banks. We put our customers and clients at the heart of everything 
we do and seek to strengthen trust in the profession of banking, using 
transparency and integrity to engender the trust of our customers, 
clients and wider society. 

Non-Core run-down
In 2016, Barclays completed the sale of its Retail Banking, Wealth and 
Investment Management and part of its Corporate Banking business 
in Portugal which serves small and medium-sized enterprises to 
Bankinter S.A. Barclays also completed the sale of its insurance business 
in Portugal to Bankinter Seguros de Vida S.A. Seguros y Reaseguros, 
which operates an insurance joint-venture with Mapfre S.A.

Completion of this transaction was further progress towards 
completing the restructuring of Barclays, resulting in a further 
decrease in risk weighted assets of £1.8bn. The sale is also 
expected to reduce Group annualised costs by c.£70m.

 For further information, see newsroom.barclays.com/ 
r/3331/accelerated_rundown_of_barclays_non_core_
continues_sale 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
12 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Our strategy

…where success for us is to be a leading,  
diversified, transatlantic bank.

Unreasonable Impact
Barclays and Unreasonable Group have partnered to launch 
Unreasonable Impact, the world's first international network of 
accelerators focused on scaling up entrepreneurial solutions that 
will help employ thousands worldwide while solving some of our 
most pressing societal challenges. The programme supports the 
scale of growth-stage ventures by providing entrepreneurs with the 
resources, mentorship, and global network of support that they need 
to rapidly create jobs in high impact sectors such as clean energy, 
waste management and sustainable agriculture.

For further information, see  
unreasonableimpact.com

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 13

Summary

Risk management at Barclays is directed 
and overseen by the independent Risk 
Management function. The function's 
primary roles are to define the level of risk 
taking for the Group in normal and stressed 
economic conditions and to oversee that 
business activities are undertaken to be 
consistent with these levels. 

For further information, see home.barclays/annualreport

The Risk Management function is accountable to the CEO and the 
Risk Committee of the Board. In 2016, Barclays' financial condition and 
our results were subject to various external developments, including 
market volatility related to the UK's vote to leave the EU in June, as well 
as reflationary expectations related to the US elections in November. 
In 2017, we will continue to monitor the external environment, including: 
macro-economic risks in the UK and Europe, heightened risk of global 
reflation and the possible end of central bank quantitative easing, 
as well as ongoing regulatory developments. 

Barclays engages in activities which entail risk taking, every day, 
throughout its business. The firm is vulnerable to credit losses in its 
lending and banking transactions. It experiences gains and losses 
from market risk in its traded positions. It is subject to treasury risk 
(including liquidity, leverage and capital gains or losses) in its financial 
management. Many important activities are managed and controlled 
through models, which introduce risk in themselves. Across its business, 
the firm is subject to operational risks, including from fraud, and process 
or technology failure. Our reputation is important when it comes to 
trust in the firm's integrity and competence. In addition Barclays may, 
in its activities, create conduct risk in relation to its customers, clients 
and the markets in which it operates. Lastly, Barclays faces the risk of 
being penalised for not meeting its legal obligations.

The firm sets a risk appetite based on current and anticipated exposures, 
and views on the evolution of markets and the economy in normal and 
stressed conditions. In effect, the risk appetite is designed to measure 
the amount of market volatility and stress the firm can withstand, while 
still meeting its financial goals and regulatory requirements. This enables 
the Risk function to set, monitor and enforce appropriate risk limits.

The overall governance of Risk is defined in an Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF), which describes how Barclays 
identifies and manages risk. The framework defines the Principal Risks to 
which the firm is subject to (see table overleaf). Model risk, reputation 
risk and legal risk are newly classified as Principal Risks in the latest 
version of the ERMF, reflecting the heightened importance of these risk 
types in the current environment. Other risks may also arise from time to 
time, for example, the firm is also subject to political and regulatory risks. 
While these risks are not considered Principal Risks, they are also subject 
to the principles set out in the ERMF and overseen by Risk Management.

 The firm sets a risk appetite based on current 
and anticipated exposures, and views on the 
evolution of markets and the economy 
in normal and stressed conditions.  

All colleagues have a specific responsibility for risk management under 
a Three Lines of Defence model. The First Line includes customer and 
client-facing colleagues and supporting functions. The role of the first 
line is to identify and manage risks. The Risk and Compliance functions 
form the Second Line. They set and monitor compliance with the rules 
and limits needed to stay within risk appetite. Finally, Internal Audit is 
the Third Line, who provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness 
of risk management. The ERMF also sets out Risk governance principles 
and committee structures. The ERMF is approved by the Board.

Risk management

We balance risk against opportunity…

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
14 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk management

We balance risk against opportunity…

Principal Risks are overseen by a dedicated Second Line functiona  

Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are incurred/managed

Credit  
Risk

The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, 
customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, 
to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the 
whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral 
and other receivables.

We incur credit risk when we lend money, e.g. to individual 
customers (including mortgages, credit cards and personal 
loans), small and medium-sized businesses, loans to large 
companies; and from derivatives contracts.

Market  
Risk

The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in 
the value of the firm's assets and liabilities from fluctuation in 
market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit 
spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.

We incur market risk via trading activities with clients and 
via the liquid assets Barclays holds to ensure we can meet 
our short-term obligations.

Treasury  
and Capital 
Risk

Liquidity Risk:  
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual 
or contingent obligations or that it does not have the 
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding 
and liquidity to support its assets.

Capital Risk:  
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition 
of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet 
its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating 
environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as 
defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). 
This includes the risk from the firm's pension plans.

Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book:  
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility 
because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures 
of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

We can incur liquidity risk in the event of severe financial market 
disruptions or Barclays idiosyncratic events that impede the 
bank's ability to secure funding.

Capital risk is mainly due to large unexpected losses, which can 
arise, e.g., from economic or market events or fines. Changes in 
regulations can also affect the assessment of capital adequacy. 

Interest rate risk arises because assets, such as loans to 
customers, and liabilities, such as deposits, carry different 
interest rates. Losses can occur when interest rate changes affect 
the performance of assets and liabilities differently. Interest rates 
have different impacts on assets and liabilities due to contractual 
differences, e.g. fixed vs floating interest rate profiles.

Operational 
Risk

The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed 
processes or systems, human factors or due to external 
events (e.g. fraud) where the root cause is not due to 
credit or market risks.

Operational risks are inherent in the firm's activities, and can 
arise, e.g. from fraud, process or technology failures.

Model  
Risk

The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial 
assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused 
model outputs and reports.

Model risk is incurred through model misuse and poorly 
designed/implemented models.

Reputation 
Risk

The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will 
reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by clients, 
counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.

Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a positive and 
dynamic culture within Barclays, ensuring that we act with 
integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built 
with customers and clients, colleagues and broader society.

Conduct  
Risk

The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market 
integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate 
supply of financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

All colleagues are responsible for the management and 
mitigation of conduct risk. The Compliance function sets the 
minimum standards that are required to ensure this risk is 
managed and provide oversight to ensure these risks are 
effectively managed and escalated where appropriate.

Legal  
Risk

The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines 
from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations 
including regulatory or contractual requirements.

The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated 
global market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines 
and other sanctions relating to the conduct of its business. 
The Group General Counsel and the Legal function support 
colleagues to mitigate legal risk.

Note  
a Legal risk is overseen by the Group General Counsel and the Legal function, which are not part of the Three Lines of Defence.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 15

In 2016, markets experienced three distinct phases of volatility. At the 
start of the year, fears of a slowdown in China led to a sharp decline in 
global interest rates and equity markets. Mid-year, closer to home, the 
UK's vote to leave the EU led not just to volatility in financial markets 
but also drove a steep decline in Sterling to levels not seen in 30 years. 
Moreover, the referendum has sparked fears, which still persist, of 
resultant real weakness in the UK economy. Toward the end of the year, 
US election results buoyed international equity markets, and sparked 
rate rises on the anticipation of global reflation. The firm has aimed to 
prudently manage its exposures to financial markets over the last year, 
consistent with our risk appetite and engagement in global financial 
markets. The results of the UK referendum and the US elections will 
likely be felt over 2017 and beyond, and require continued care in 
managing the firm's exposures, not just in financial markets but in credit 
portfolios. In addition to financial risk, the firm continues to monitor its 
risk processes and operational risks closely. 

Focus areas in 2016 have included credit risk, with a management 
review of the UK and US cards portfolio impairment modelling leading 
to process enhancements, and operational risk focus areas including 
technology and information security. The number of well-publicised 
instances of cyber-attacks and related fraud has been increasing in both 
scope and size, placing a greater need to increase protection. Barclays 
also continues to pay careful attention to the management of conduct 
and reputational risks (please see pages 160 and 161).

 All colleagues have a specific responsibility 
for risk management under a Three Lines of 
Defence model.  

The firm continues to respond to evolving regulatory requirements, 
including in relation to IFRS9, stress testing, UK Structural Reform, and 
the institution of the Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) in the US. 
These changes require considerable risk management effort and 
monitoring (please see material existing and emerging risks outlined 
in the Risk Review section on page 137). In particular, IFRS9 
implementation is expected to result in higher impairment loss 
allowances that are recognised earlier, on a more forward-looking basis 
and on a broader scope of financial instruments. Finally, in 2016, the firm 
commenced the re-organisation of the risk management function by 
legal entity. This is being done in compliance with the requirements of 
Structural Reform and to support the IHC. 

In summary, the scale, complexity and requirements of Risk 
Management have been steadily increasing since the financial crisis of 
2008-2009, and will continue to do so. At the same time, the market 
and economic environment are showing greater signs of flux, after a 
relatively long period of improving credit conditions and quiescent 
volatility. The combination of these factors will likely pose important 
challenges for Risk Management in 2017.

C.S. Venkatakrishnan
Chief Risk Officer

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
16 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

In 2013, we introduced a Balanced Scorecard 
to allow delivery of our strategy to be measured 
over a five-year time horizon. As we are now 
approaching the end of this period, we believe 
that a revised approach to measuring financial 
and non-financial performance, aligned to the 
strategic update announced on 1 March 2016, 
is more appropriate.
We comment in this section on our 
performance against the Balanced Scorecard 
in 2016, and introduce the revised performance 
measurement framework that we will use going 
forward to assess progress against our strategy.

In 2016, the Balanced Scorecard was used by the organisation as part 
of its performance management framework, to assess our performance 
against nine specific metrics that were designed to allow progress 
against our strategy to be measured. These metrics were aligned to five 
categories: Company, Customer and Client, Colleague, Citizenship and 
Conduct. In revising our approach to performance measurement going 
forward, we have kept elements of the Balanced Scorecard consistent, 
such as the objective of delivering positive outcomes for all our 
stakeholders and many of the metrics, but broadened the scope of the 
evaluation to produce a more detailed and informed reflection of how 
we are delivering against our strategic objectives. 

Overall in 2016, the majority of these Balanced Scorecard metrics 
remained broadly stable, with the exception of our CET1 ratio and the 
percentage of women in senior leadership, both of which improved. 
Below you will find a summary of our performance in 2016 against the 
each of the Balanced Scorecard categories.

Company: our financial metrics were revised within the Balanced 
Scorecard at the beginning of 2016 when we announced our intention 
to simplify our financial targets for Barclays PLC Group to focus on three 
key metrics. We aligned our focus to Return on Tangible Equity, from 
Return on Equity, taking on board the feedback from our stakeholders 
and aligning ourselves to how many of our peers report their returns. 
We are also committed to the continued management of our cost base, 
as a proportion of income, and incorporated Cost: Income ratio as a new 
metric. Finally, we continue to focus on our CET1 ratio, by driving the 
capital strength and resilience of Barclays and ensuring a safer bank 
for all of our stakeholders. Further detail on how we performed against 
our financial metrics under our revised performance measurement 
framework can be found on page 19.

Delivery of 2016 Barclays PLC Group performance against our Balanced Scorecard
Primary metrics 2014 Actual 2015 Actual 2016 2018 Target

Companya Return on Tangible Equity Excluding notable itemsb 
 Including notable items

5.9% 
(0.3%)

5.8% 
(0.7%)

4.4% 
3.6%

N/A

Cost: Income ratioc Excluding notable itemsb 
 Including notable items

70% 
81%

69% 
81%

72% 
74%

N/A

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 10.3% 11.4% 12.4% N/A

Customer  
and Client

Net Promoter Score (NPS) 4th 4th 4th 1st

Client Franchise Rank (CFR) 5th 5th 5th Top three

Colleague Sustained engagement of colleagues score 72% 75% 75% 87-91%

% of women in senior leadership 22% 23% 24% 26%

Citizenship Citizenship Plan –  
initiatives on track or ahead of plan

11/11 10/11 8/10 Plan targets

Conduct Conduct Reputation  
(YouGov survey)

5.3/10 5.4/10 5.4/10 6.5/10

Note:
a New Company targets were introduced on 1 March 2016. The Adjusted Return on Equity metric was replaced with Return on Tangible Equity and the Cost: Income ratio was introduced. 
b Notable items comprise provisions for UK customer redress of £1bn (2015:2.8bn), a £615m (2015: £nil) gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited, and an own credit loss 

of £35m (2015: gain of £430m).
c Cost: Income ratio for the Balanced Scorecard expressed as total operating expenses of the Group, including Africa, divided by the total income of these businesses (both excluding 

notable items).

Our key performance indicators

… and positive outcomes for our stakeholders  
are integral to our long-term strategic success.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 17

Customer and Client: despite improvements to our NPS across most 
consumer businesses, our ranking of 4th relative to our peer group 
remained the same, as improvements continued across the industry. 
We focused on making further enhancements to customer journeys and 
strengthening the level of engagement we have with customers, while 
continuing to offer innovative products and services that meet their 
needs. We were pleased that our Client Franchise Rank remained flat on 
2015, demonstrating the strength of our banking and markets franchises 
in our home markets of the UK and US, despite the execution of our 
strategic realignment announced on 1 March 2016. Further detail on 
how we delivered positive outcomes for Customers and Clients under 
our revised performance measurement framework can be found 
on page 20.

 We remain resolutely focused on creating 
an environment in which our colleagues feel 
enabled to fulfil their potential.  

Colleague: we saw an improvement in the gender diversity of our 
leadership, with initiatives to promote diversity proving successful. 
Our colleague engagement remained constant despite some significant 
organisational change. We remain resolutely focused on creating an 
environment in which our colleagues feel enabled to fulfil their potential. 
Further detail on how we delivered positive outcomes for Colleagues 
under our revised performance measurement framework can be found 
on page 22.

Citizenship: previously, performance was measured against 11 metrics 
embedded in the 2015 Citizenship Plan, which has now been completed. 
In June 2016, Barclays launched the Shared Growth Ambition and we 
have developed new metrics as part of the evolution of our performance 
measurement framework. 2016 is a transition year in moving to our new 
approach, with distinct performance frameworks for Barclays Group 
(excluding Africa) and Barclays Africa. 

For Barclays Group (excluding Africa), performance was assessed 
against six initiatives: three reflecting the new Shared Growth Ambition 
focus areas of ‘access to financing', ‘access to financial and digital 
empowerment' and ‘access to employment'; and three initiatives that 
are consistent with the previous Citizenship Plan, namely ‘Barclays Way 
training', ‘carbon emissions reduction' and ‘payment of our suppliers on 
time'. We exceeded our objectives on all six of these initiatives in 2016 
(see page 23 for more detail). 

Barclays Africa has a Citizenship strategy that is closely aligned, but 
focused on four regionally specific objectives. In 2016, Barclays Africa 
delivered strong performance on ‘investment in education' and ‘SME 
financing', both of which were on track for 2016. However, performance 
on two initiatives in Africa was off-track due to external challenges 
which impacted the delivery of ‘planned employability' and ‘financial 
inclusion interventions', and resulted in an overall Group score of 8/10 
for Citizenship on the Balanced Scorecard.

Conduct: our Conduct Reputation measure was flat on 2015, at 5.4/10, 
as stakeholder audience perceptions weakened slightly across the 
components of the Conduct measure, with the exception of ‘Has high 
quality products and services'. While below our expectations, overall 
performance on the Conduct reputation measure remains stronger than 
two of the three prior years and reflects our ongoing commitment to 
promoting a positive conduct and values-based culture. In 2016, the 
Group continued to incur significant costs in relation to litigation and 
conduct matters and resolution of these matters remains a necessary 
and important part of delivering the Group's strategy, together with 
an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct. 
As we transition to our revised performance measurement framework 
(see page 18 for more detail), how we behave through our conduct and 
culture underpins our objective of achieving positive outcomes for all 
our stakeholders and is embedded across the organisation.

Supporting the UK economy
Barclays added £8.5bna in 
economic benefit to the UK 
through our employment, supply 
chain and purchasing power, 
which creates a positive ripple 
throughout the economy. This is a 
bigger benefit than the entire UK 
pharma, IT or aviation industry.

Note
a From April 2015 to March 2016.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
Revised Barclays PLC Group Performance Measurement Framework 

Financial performance metrics  
– to be delivered within a reasonable timeframe
■■ Group RoTE to converge  

with Core RoTE
■■ Group Cost: Income 

ratio below 60%
■■ CET1 ratio 150-200bps  

above minimum regulatory level

Strategic non-financial performance measures  
– delivering positive outcomes for our stakeholders

Customer and Client Colleague Citizenship
■■ Building trust with our 

customers and clients, such that 
they are happy to recommend us 
to others

■■ Successfully innovating and 
developing products and services 
that meet their needs

■■ Offering suitable products and 
services in an accessible way, 
ensuring excellent customer and 
client experience

Promoting and maintaining:

■■ A diverse and inclusive workforce 
in which employees of all 
backgrounds are treated equally 
and have the opportunity to be 
successful and achieve their 
potential

■■ Engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ A positive conduct and 

values-based environment

■■ Making decisions and doing 
business that provides our 
clients, customers, shareholders, 
colleagues and the communities 
which we serve with access to a 
prosperous future, through our 
Shared Growth Ambition

■■ Proactively managing the 
environmental and societal 
impacts of our business

Underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders through our conduct and culture

18 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Our key performance indicators

… and positive outcomes for our stakeholders  
are integral to our long-term strategic success.

Revised performance measurement framework
Evolving our approach to measuring progress towards our strategic 
goals and delivering positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.

In line with our objective of delivering a simplified bank, focused on 
delivering long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders through 
the strategic actions announced on 1 March 2016, we are now evolving 
our approach to performance measurement to reflect better the way 
in which management monitors the performance of the Group. The 
framework incorporates a balance of key financial performance metrics, 
while broadening our approach to strategic non-financial measures, 
and represents an evolution from the Balanced Scorecard that has been 
used since 2013.

Our revised approach retains a similar focus on achieving positive 
outcomes for our key stakeholders. However, rather than focusing on a 
few narrowly defined targets to measure our performance, the revised 
approach allows for a more holistic assessment, and provides a better 
reflection of our progress towards the strategic goals of the organisation.

 The revised approach will support the 
sustained delivery of our strategy over the 
medium to long-term and will influence 
executive remuneration from 2017. 
Our strategic success is intrinsically linked 
to the positive impact we have on all our 
stakeholders and society as a whole.  

Financial performance metrics
The financial metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC Group Financial 
Targets: Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) to converge with Core 
RoTE; Cost: Income ratio below 60%; and CET1 ratio 150-200bps above 
the minimum regulatory level, and will be reported quarterly as part of 
our financial results. Achieving these three targets within a reasonable 
timeframe is consistent with our aim of generating long-term 
sustainable returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC Group.

Strategic non-financial performance measures
Non-financial measures remain an important element of how we 
evaluate our strategic performance, in achieving our ambition of 
delivering a sustainable business for all our stakeholders. We focus on 
the impact we make on our customers and clients, colleagues, and the 
benefit we bring to society via our new citizenship strategy – our Shared 
Growth Ambition. These measures are underpinned by how we behave 
towards all our stakeholders, through our conduct and our culture.

To assess our performance, we draw on a broad range of information 
sources that are aligned to our management reporting framework, 
including internal management reports and external measures, ensuring 
a balanced view. As our management reporting framework develops, the 
sources may also evolve, but we will retain a consistent approach, with 
quantitative and qualitative evaluation to provide context to the 
performance assessment.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 19

Financial performance  
metrics

Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
Achieving Barclays PLC Group financial targets within a reasonable 
timeframe, consistent with our aim of generating long-term sustainable 
returns for the shareholders

How we measure success 
Current financial targets that we aim to achieve within a reasonable 
timeframe:

■■ Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) to converge with Core RoTE
■■ Cost: Income ratio below 60%
■■ CET1 ratio 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory level.

How and why we are renewing our approach
On 1 March 2016, we set out three financial targets to allow 
shareholders to track our progress towards our strategic objectives. 
Our revised approach aligns our financial performance metrics to the 
Barclays PLC Group targets, which are reported quarterly in line with 
our financial results. 

How we are doing

3.6% 
Group Return on Tangible Equity 
(2015: (0.7%))

8.4%
Core Return on Tangible Equity 
(2015: 4.8%)
RoTE measures our ability to generate acceptable returns for 
shareholders. It is calculated as profit after tax attributable to ordinary 
shareholders, divided by average shareholders' equity for the year, 
excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments 
adjusted for the deduction of intangible assets and goodwill. 

Group RoTE increased to 3.6% (2015: (0.7%)) predominately reflecting 
the significantly lower impact of notable items in 2016, as profit before 
tax increased 182% to £3,230m. Notable items totalled a net loss before 
tax of £420m (2015: £3,330m) comprising provisions for UK customer 
redress of £1,000m (2015: £2,772m), a £615m (2015: £nil) gain on 
disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited and an own credit loss 
of £35m (2015: gain of £430m). Excluding notable items, Group RoTE 
was 4.4% (2015: 5.8%). 

Core RoTE increased to 8.4% (2015: 4.8%), or 9.4% (2015: 11.2%) 
excluding notable items, on an average tangible equity base that was 
£4.2bn higher at £41.0bn. While we expect Group and Core RoTE to 
converge over time, Group RoTE in 2016 was significantly impacted by 
the loss before tax of £2,786m (2015: £2,603m) incurred by Non-Core 
as its run-down was accelerated.

76% 
Cost: Income ratio 
(2015: 84%)
Cost: Income ratio measures operating expenses as a percentage of 
total income, and is used to gauge the efficiency and productivity 
of our business. 

Group Cost: Income ratio reduced to 76% (2015: 84%) primarily as 
a result of lower litigation and conduct charges, as total operating 
expenses declined 12% to £16,338m. Group Cost: Income ratio, 
excluding notable items, was 73% (2015: 70%), with the increase 
primarily driven by negative income in Non-Core reflecting the 
acceleration of the run-down. Core Cost: Income ratio, excluding notable 
items, was 61% (2015: 62%), as Core income increased by 7% to 
£22,035m, while total operating expenses increased by 6% to £13,507m. 
We are on track to achieve our Group target of below 60% over time.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
20 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Our key performance indicators

… and positive outcomes for our stakeholders  
are integral to our long-term strategic success.

 12.4% 
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio 
(2015: 11.4%)
The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital strength and resilience of 
Barclays. The Group's capital management objective is to maximise 
shareholder value by prudently managing the level and mix of its 
capital to: ensure the Group and all of its subsidiaries are appropriately 
capitalised relative to their minimum regulatory and stressed capital 
requirements; support the Group's risk appetite, growth and strategic 
options, while seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition for the 
Group and its subsidiaries.

The ratio expresses Barclays' capital as a percentage of risk weighted 
assets (RWAs), as defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital 
Requirements Directive IV (CRDIV - an EU Directive prescribing capital 
adequacy and liquidity requirements), and is part of the regulatory 
framework governing how banks and depository institutions 
are supervised.

The Group's CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio increased to 12.4% (2015: 
11.4%) due to an increase in CET1 capital to £45.2bn (2015: £40.7bn), 
driven largely by profits generated during the year. This was partially 
offset by an increase in RWAs to £366bn (2015: £358bn), driven by the 
appreciation of US Dollar, Euro and South African Rand against Sterling. 

We have increased our expected end-state management buffer from a 
100-150bps range to 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory level, 
providing 400-450bps buffer to the Bank of England stress test systemic 
reference point. On this basis we currently expect our end-state 
CET1 ratio to be in a range of 12.3-12.8% and we remain confident 
in our capital trajectory. 

For full details of our financial performance,  
please refer to the financial statements from page 267.

Supporting SMEs
We lent to a UK SME  
every four minutesa.

Note
a From April 2015 to March 2016.

 Strategic non-financial performance measures: Customer and Client
Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
■■ Building trust with our customers and clients, such that they are 

happy to recommend us to others
■■ Successfully innovating and developing products and services that 

meet their needs
■■ Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way, 

ensuring excellent customer and client experience.

How we measure success
Progress towards these outcomes is informed by a number of sources 
including internal dashboards, regular management reporting materials 
and external measures, ensuring a balanced review of performance. 
Evaluation includes, but is not limited to:

■■ Net Promoter Scores (NPS)1

■■ Client rankings and market shares
■■ Complaints performance 
■■ Lending volumes provided to customers and clients.

How and why we are renewing our approach
These measures build on the previous Balanced Scorecard metrics for 
Customer and Client, defined as Relationship NPS and Client Franchise 
Rank. Our revised approach allows for a broader consideration of how 
well we are serving our customers and clients, including our complaints 
performance and the volume of lending we have provided to support 
consumers and businesses, as well as examples of innovation.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 21

How we are doing
In 2016, we focused on delivering excellent customer and client 
experience, by offering innovative products and services to meet their 
needs in an appropriate and accessible way, while also promoting fair, 
open and transparent markets. Although our NPS increased across many 
of our businesses, customer expectations also continued to increase, 
meaning continual improvements to our customer journeys across our 
businesses are necessary. And while the repositioning of our CIB involved 
challenging strategic choices to reduce our activities in certain products 
and geographies, our client rankings and market shares demonstrate 
the strength of our proposition in our home markets of the UK and US. 
Complaints reduction remains a priority and we have more work to do, 
as can be seen from our position in the FCA complaint tables in the UK2. 
This is a key focus area for management as part of our ongoing 
commitment to improve our oversight of conduct. 

Net Promoter Scores1
Relationship NPS (RNPS) across Barclays UK in 2016 reached a high of 
+13, an increase of 6 points compared to 2015, with more customers 
advocating our brands across key product categories, notably UK 
current accounts and UK credit cards. The continuous improvements 
we made to customer journeys through automation, digitisation and 
omni-channel capabilities were reflected in an average increase of five 
Transactional NPS (TNPS) points, with particularly strong scores in 
Barclays Mobile Banking and Pingit. Our Barclaycard International 
business also continued to have strong RNPS, driven by a clear focus 
on advocacy and improvements in our products and digital experience. 
Despite minor improvements to our NPS in business banking, we are 
intently focused on improving customer experience in 2017 to meet 
and exceed industry benchmarks. We are placing particular focus on 
our TNPS for business banking telephony and complaints, which are 
below expectations.

Client rankings and market shares
In Barclays International, within the Corporate and Investment Bank, 
we ranked in 2016: 5th by fee share, up from 6th in 2015, across our 
UK and US home markets in M&A, equity and debt capital markets and 
syndicated loan transactions (Dealogic) and 4th based on 2016 Global 
Fixed Income market share (Greenwich Associates). Among our largest 
UK corporate clients, 90% considered the service they receive from 
Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, broadly stable with 2015 
(Charterhouse3).

Complaints
Underlying complaint volumes in Barclays UK reduced by 11% as a result 
of our ongoing focus on improving customer journeys. However, with PPI 
complaints increasing by 16%, total Barclays UK complaint volumes were 
up 1% year on year in 2016. Barclays International complaints increased 
8%, mostly in our consumer business, driven by 6% growth in US credit 
card average open accounts, although complaints per account still 
remain close to an all-time low. 

Lending volumes
Barclays is an important provider of financial services to UK businesses 
– we provided around £70bn of loans, up 6%, and just over £3.6bn to 
SMEs, demonstrating our commitment to supporting growth in the UK. 
We also extended or renewed mortgage facilities worth nearly £19bn, 
up 8% year on year, to nearly 90,000 UK households. Building on the 
success of our digital consumer loan offering to existing customers, we 
recently became the first UK bank to offer instant business lending via a 
mobile app. And we processed one third of all payments made in the UK, 
through customer spending and our merchant acquiring network.

 In 2016 we focused on delivering excellent 
customer and client experience, by offering 
innovative products and services to meet their 
needs in an appropriate and accessible way. 

Making customers' and clients' lives easier
We are making our customers' and clients' lives much easier through 
pioneering innovation. For example, Barclays will be the first UK bank 
to offer a contactless mobile withdrawal service of up to £100 with the 
tap of a smartphone. We also launched our new online direct investing 
service (Smart Investor) and are the first high street bank to provide fully 
integrated banking and investments via online banking. Barclaycard also 
continued to lead in innovation, being the first of our competitors to 
launch a proprietary contactless Android capability through its app.

We also offered initiatives to help high-growth businesses flourish – for 
example, our Barclays Eagle Labs provided innovation hubs for 
pioneering businesses in bank branches around the UK (see case study 
on page 28). Our UK credit cards' Specialist Support team won the 
Vulnerable Customer Support Initiative Award at the 2016 Collections 
and Customer Service Awards; testament to the significant work we 
have done to provide the best possible experience to customers in 
difficult situations.

Our customers and clients are at the heart of our purpose and 
strategy. For further information on our customer propositions 
provided via our two core divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays 

International, please refer to pages 26 to 35.

Notes
1 NPS is a ranking widely used in banking and other industries that facilitates 

comprehensive benchmarking and identifies best practice. Relationship NPS is measured 
at a business level, whereas Transactional NPS is measured for key customer journeys.

2 FCA reporting methodology changes were implemented for the second half of 2016, 
with reporting to commence from the end of February 2017.

3 Charterhouse Research Business Banking survey, 804 interviews with businesses in the 
UK turning over £25m-£1bn in 2016. Data is weighted to be representative of the UK 
business market. Percentage rating for overall service of bank named as main bank.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
22 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Our key performance indicators

… and positive outcomes for our stakeholders  
are integral to our long-term strategic success.

 Strategic non-financial performance measures: Colleague
Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
Promoting and maintaining:

■■ A diverse and inclusive workforce in which employees of all 
backgrounds are treated equally and have the opportunity 
to be successful and achieve their potential

■■ Engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ A positive conduct and values-based environment.

How we measure success
Progress towards these outcomes is informed by a number of sources 
including internal dashboards, regular management reporting and 
external measures, ensuring a balanced review of performance. 
Evaluation includes, but is not limited to:

■■ Diversity and Inclusion statistics
■■ Employee sustainable engagement survey scores
■■ Conduct and culture measures.

How and why we are renewing our approach
These measures build on the previous Balanced Scorecard Colleague 
metrics, the sustainable engagement of colleagues and proportion of 
women in senior leadership. Our revised approach allows for broader 
consideration of the extensive initiatives at Barclays that promote a 
diverse and inclusive environment where colleagues are engaged and 
enabled, while maintaining a positive conduct and values-based culture. 

 Although this is evidence of good 
progress, we continue to strengthen our 
gender pipeline and enable women to fulfil 
their career aspirations.  

How we are doing
In 2016, we received positive external recognition for our work towards 
promoting a diverse workforce, with initiatives ongoing across each of 
our diversity pillars. At the same time, engagement of our colleagues 
remained stable overall, with opportunities identified to enable our 
colleagues to deliver excellent performance. We also made solid progress 
in embedding a positive conduct and values-based environment which 
will continue to evolve into 2017 and beyond.

For further information on our People, please see page 95.

Diversity of our workforce and inclusion of our colleaguesa
In 2016 we remained committed to increasing the diversity of our 
workforce, with increased female representation at all levels remaining 
a key focus – on our Board this remained at 31% (2020 target of 33%). 
Across our senior leadership, female representation was 24% (2018 
Women in Leadership goal of 26%). Following the recommendations 
from the Hampton Alexander Review, from 2017, we will publish the 
combined number of women on the Group Executive Committee and 
their direct reports, which was 25% at the end of 2016 (2020 target of 
33%). In addition, in 2016 we increased female graduate hires to 39% 
from 31% in 2014.

Although this is evidence of good progress, we continue to strengthen 
our gender pipeline and enable women to fulfil their career aspirations, 
through activity such as: the 2016 Barclays Global Women in Leadership 
summit, promoting Dynamic Working, our Encore! Returnship 
Programme, our HeForShe campaign and the Barclays Women's 
Initiatives Network. 

The other pillars of our global Diversity and Inclusion strategy are:

■■ Disability: Barclays ‘Able to Enable' Apprenticeship Programme 
launched in 2016 along with the Business Disability Forum awarding 
Barclays a score of 98%, the highest company rating in the history 
of the index

■■ LGBT: Our Spectrum Allies programme includes over 7,000 colleagues 
supporting our LGBT agenda 

■■ Multicultural: 30% of our apprentices identify as Black, Asian and 
Minority Ethnic, 19% points above the national apprenticeship average 

■■ Multigenerational: Barclays Armed Forces Transitioning, Employment 
and Resettlement (AFTER) programme with nearly 400 ex-military 
hires since 2010. 

External recognition from organisations such as Stonewall, The Times 
Top 50 Places to Work for Women, 100% on the Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index and a Working Mother Media's 
Top Employer for Women, confirms the progress we have made. In 2017, 
we will focus on our multicultural agenda through the launch of our 
Embracing Us Campaign and partnerships with organisations including 
the Wall Street Project and Race for Opportunity.

Supporting our employees
We provide 2m hours of training 
to our employees.

Note
a Under Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report on the gender breakdown 

of our employees and ‘senior managers' – a narrower scope than our Women In Senior 
Leadership definition. Of our global workforce of 119,300 (60,100 male, 59,200 female), 
756 were senior managers (531 male, 225 female), which include Officers of the Group, 
certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business units, certain senior 
Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of undertakings of the Group, but 
exclude individuals who sit as directors on the Board of the Company.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 23

LifeSkills
Since 2013, 3.6m young people 
have participated in the 
programme, gaining real-world 
experiences for a better future.

Engaged and enabled colleagues
Engaged employees are critically important as they are more likely to 
remain at and recommend Barclays, and deliver beyond the day to day 
requirements of their role. By promoting internal mobility and career 
development, we hope to not only attract talented individuals, but retain 
them. In 2016 we launched our ‘Apply Within' internal mobility campaign, 
increasing our rate of internal hiring to 48%, from 37% at the end of 2015 
(excluding Africa). 

This year our annual ‘Your View' employee opinion survey became a 
quarterly pulse survey (excluding Africa) allowing for more real-time 
feedback on how it feels to work at Barclays. At the end of 2016, 
sustainable engagement of our colleagues remained stable at 75%. 
Areas of particular strength from the survey included: ‘colleagues feeling 
proud of the contribution Barclays makes to the community and society' 
(88% favourable, up 3% points on 2015) and ‘employees feeling respected 
regardless of their job' (83% favourable, up 4% points on 2015). 

Areas of opportunity include ‘removing the obstacles people face in 
doing their jobs well' and ‘ensuring people have the necessary tools 
and resources to achieve excellent performance' (both 52% favourable). 
To address this we continue to look at ways to improve the simplicity 
and efficiency of our systems, tools and resources to drive a culture 
of excellence.

A positive conduct and values-based culture
Fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success and 
we continue to build a positive conduct and values-based culture 
through initiatives aimed at strengthening the profession of banking. 
The ‘Let's talk about how' performance management campaign, 
launched this year, supports the behaviours that underpin our values 
and reinforces the importance that we place on measuring and 
rewarding both ‘what' our employees deliver and ‘how' they deliver. 

During 2016, we developed a culture measurement framework, 
anchored in our values, to manage and measure progress in embedding 
a positive conduct and values-based culture. The initial results 
demonstrate that we have been particularly successful in continuing 
to embed Stewardship and Integrity through focus on innovation and 
citizenship and by creating an environment where colleagues ‘feel 
increasingly safe to speak up' (81% favourable, up 6% points on 2015); 
and are ‘unafraid to report unethical behaviour' (first reported outcome 
86% favourable). In addition, Service and Respect remain strong with 
83% of colleagues agreeing with the proposition that ‘Barclays is truly 
focused on achieving good customer and client outcomes' and 89% of 
colleagues agreeing that ‘Leaders at Barclays support diversity in the 
workplace'. Excellence remains our biggest opportunity for improvement 
with 36% of colleagues agreeing that ‘Barclays has been successful in 
eliminating obstacles to efficiency'. 

 Strategic non-financial performance measures: Citizenship
Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
■■ Making decisions and doing business that provides our clients, 

customers, shareholders, colleagues and the communities 
which we serve with access to a prosperous future, through our 
Shared Growth Ambition

■■ Proactively managing the environmental and societal impacts 
of our business.

How we measure success
Progress towards these outcomes is informed by an assessment against our 
Shared Growth Ambition. These are supplemented by internal dashboards 
and external measures. Evaluation includes, but is not limited to:

■■ Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition 
■■ Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities
■■ External benchmarks and surveys.

How and why we are renewing our approach
Since 2012, we have measured progress against initiatives in our 
four-year Citizenship plan. In June 2016, we launched our new plan, 
the Shared Growth Ambition.

 Our long-term aim is to create and 
grow a collection of products, services 
and partnerships that improve the lives of 
people in the communities which we serve, 
while providing the commercial return 
our shareholders deserve.  

We are moving away from setting narrow targets for our Shared Growth 
Ambition, as we focus more on impact and use a broader range of 
quantitative and qualitative indicators to assess performance. We will 
continue to have targets for carbon emissions reduction and training on 
the Barclays Way. We aim to enhance the impact of our Shared Growth 
Ambition over time and may expand our assessment to include 
additional measures in future years.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
24 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

How we are doing
We exceeded our own objectives on all six initiatives in the first year of 
our Shared Growth Ambition. Performance was ahead of plan against 
our internal milestones for three initiatives around ‘access to financing', 
‘access to digital and financial empowerment' and ‘access to 
employment'. We also exceeded our 2016 targets for Barclays Way 
training, carbon emissions reduction and payment of suppliers on time. 

Access to financing: We continued to deliver innovative financing 
solutions for areas including renewable energy, water and low carbon 
technologies; social infrastructure; development institutions; and small 
business financing. Barclays delivered £21.1bn in financing for selected 
social and environmental segments across our business lines. This 
included a range of green bond transactions for corporate, supranational 
and municipal clients as well as lending facilities for renewable energy 
projects. For further information, please see our Environmental, 
Social, Governance (ESG) Supplement 2016 available at  
home.barclays/annualreport 

Access to financial and digital empowerment: Inclusive financial 
systems are key to achieving economic and societal progress, but there 
can be several barriers to access. We believe digital offerings can help 
break down these barriers. We helped empower around 249,000 people 
in 2016 through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial for those with a 
limited credit history; our Digital Eagles network, who are specially 
trained Barclays employees working to provide free technology support 
to customers and non-customers; and the continued development of 
learning platforms such as Financial Wings and Digital Wings.

Access to employment: In the 21st century new jobs are increasingly 
coming from fast-growing small businesses and entrepreneurs, which 
require support to scale up. Barclays is committed to working on both the 
supply and demand side – enhancing supply by helping people gain 
access to skills, and facilitating demand by supporting entrepreneurs 
to drive job creation. We helped upskill over 1.7 million people in 2016, 
driven by a range of regional partnerships and our LifeSkills programme. 
We also launched ‘Unreasonable Impact' in partnership with Unreasonable 
Group, focused on scaling ventures that solve environmental and societal 
problems. The first cohorts in the UK started in September and in the US 
in November 2016, with Asia launching in 2017.

Business conduct and environmental impact
The Barclays Way outlines the Purpose and Values which govern our way 
of working across our business globally. It constitutes a reference point 
covering all aspects of colleagues' working relationships. 99.6% of our 
colleagues completed annual training on The Barclays Way in 2016 
(Target: above 97%).

We reduced carbon emissions by 15.8% against the 2015 baseline, 
making good progress against our new target of 30% reduction by 2018. 
We also achieved 88% on-time payment by value to our suppliers 
(Target: 85%).

Engaging our colleagues 
Our people are Barclays' greatest ambassadors, contributing time, 
skills and expertise to create a positive and sustainable societal impact. 
In 2016 more than 43,000 colleagues participated in a range of causes, 
contributing over 212,000 hours, donating a total of almost £25m, 
including Barclays matched funding.

 We reduced carbon emissions by 15.8% 
against the 2015 baseline, making good 
progress against our new target of 30% 
reduction by 2018.  

Benchmarking our performance
In 2016, we improved our performance and maintained membership 
of both the Dow Jones Sustainability Index series, where our score 
increased by 2 percentage points to 84%, and the FTSE4Good Index 
series, with an absolute score of 3.9/5, up from 3.6 in 2015.

 Further detail on policies, including Barclays Group Statement 
on Modern Slavery, can be found on our website at  
home.barclays/citizenship

We also provide disclosures on key initiatives aligned to the Global 
Reporting Initiative guidelines, in the Environmental, Social, Governance 
(ESG) Supplement 2016 available at home.barclays/annualreport

Our key performance indicators

… and positive outcomes for our stakeholders  
are integral to our long-term strategic success.

<Page End><Page Start>
A review of  
our operational 
performance

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 25

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
26 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

Our aim at Barclays UK is to help people move 
forward. We do this by creating meaningful 
relationships with our customers, offering 
them relevant products and services, and 
by using our leading data and analytic 
capabilities to ensure suitability and delivery 
of excellent customer experience. 
During 2018, Barclays UK will become the 
ring-fenced bank for the UK, continuing to 
provide transactional, lending and investment 
products and services to over 24 million 
Personal, Wealth and Business Banking 
customers and clients, via a separate legal entity.

Market and environment in which the division operates
2016 was a year in which a number of significant events took place, such 
as the UK's vote to leave the EU and the presidential election in the US – 
both of which impacted our customers and our operating environment.

In addition, the UK retail banking environment is increasingly competitive 
and dynamic, and is experiencing significant regulatory and technological 
change. The speed of change and innovation is expected to continue 
to accelerate with the introduction of new data regulations, such as the 
Open Banking Standards. Unfortunately, we are also seeing significant 
growth in sophisticated cyber-fraud.

Customer expectations are also increasing. Our customers want prompt 
responses to their banking requirements. They want their transactions 
to be accurate and efficient, yet still have that personalised support 
during key moments in their lives.

Barclays UK has a tremendous opportunity to grow our business and 
generate sustainable returns by building meaningful relationships with 
the 24 million customers we currently do business with. By innovating 
and harnessing technology we are able to provide simple and relevant 
solutions for our customers and clients, build sustainable revenue flows, 
structurally remove cost and achieve prudent, balanced growth within 
our risk appetite.

We achieve this through:

■■ leveraging our data capabilities to identify when our customers need 
solutions e.g. SmartBusiness, our first big data product providing 
SMEs with key information, metrics and insights to help them grow 
their business

■■ enhancing functionality on mobile and internet banking to enable 
customers to undertake all their routine transactional banking quickly 
and easily. Over 9.5 million of our customers are digitally active

■■ building the Direct Bank. We have built capabilities, such as voice 
recognition and video banking, which allow us to interact with our 
customers 24/7, increase capacity, and have more meaningful 
interactions with our customers

■■ tailoring services, such as pre-selecting existing banking customers 
for a Barclaycard, providing instant digital fulfilment and personalised 
experience through Barclays Mobile Banking

■■ providing fully-integrated banking and investments with new, 
sophisticated digital platforms with a range of helpful tools, planners 
and information to help customers make informed decisions and take 
control of their investments

■■ giving customers and clients market data they need to make 
personalised choices across business, property, education or 
investment – by using our annual Barclays UK Prosperity Map 
or through our Unlock Britain campaign

■■ keeping our customers and clients safe with increased focus and 
investment in tackling cyber-fraud.

We are also leading the digital revolution with our colleagues, working 
hand in hand with our communities, and helping our customers feel 
comfortable in the digital environment by introducing them to our 
Digital Eagles and our Digital Wings initiatives.

Barclays UK provides diversification to the Group with our balance of 
products and services in the UK banking sector. This diversification helps 
protect revenue flows in the changing environment, and allows us to 
remain close to our customers for all their banking needs.

Risks to the operating model
We monitor the market environment closely – in particular the effect of 
low interest rates, the expected growth in credit and unsecured lending, 
and adjust our financial and economic assumptions in a considered 
manner. As a large UK retail bank, we are cognisant of the credit risk 

Performance review

Barclays UK

Ashok Vaswani is the CEO for Barclays UK and 
has spent the last seven years with Barclays in 
a variety of roles following an extensive career 
at Citigroup. Ashok represents Barclays as 
a Non-Executive Director on the Board of 
Barclays Africa Group Limited and is a member 
of the Board of Directors of Telenor ASA. He 
also sits on the advisory boards of a number 
of institutions such as Citizens Advice, FICO, 
Rutberg & Co and is Founder Director of 
Lend-a-Hand, a non-profit organisation 
focused on rural education in India. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 27

Customers  
and Clients
■■ Individuals
■■ SMEs

Products  
and services
■■ Personal banking services
■■ Credit cards and 

transactional lending
■■ Investment products  

and services
■■ Business banking solutions

Value  
creation
■■ To our customers & clients – 

Building meaningful 
relationships to provide 
relevant financial solutions

■■ To society – Helping 
communities move forward

■■ To Barclays – Ring-fenced 
UK-focused bank with 
sustainable revenues and 
prudent balance growth 

Contribution  
to Group
■■ £7.5bn Income
■■ £1.7bn Profit before tax
■■ 9.6% RoTE
■■ 65% Cost: Income ratio
■■ £67.5bn Risk Weighted 

Assets

faced through our lending. Our conservative risk profile for lending 
through products such as mortgages and credit cards, is continually 
monitored to ensure our exposure is aligned to our risk appetite.

Barclays UK is the largest contributor to margin-led income for the Group.  
Our focus on pricing discipline, reflected in our stable net interest margin in 
recent years, and our structural hedge programme – investing in interest 
rate swaps to provide a smoothing effect on interest rate step changes 
– have both provided protection against adverse changes in the interest 
rate environment in 2016, and will continue to do so going forward, albeit 
the beneficial impact of the structural hedge will decline over time.

We are committed to ensuring continued growth of the UK business, 
and are developing our product offering and services to suit customers' 
needs, in their local environments. We understand the challenges posed 
by significant technological change and know it is essential that we stay 
relevant and provide up-to-date solutions for our customers. The pace of 
development also means a changing set of risks; from data integrity to 
continuity of service. We ensure our contingency systems are pressure-
tested to ensure there is no disruption to customer service. Cyber-risk 
is a continuing concern, and we have invested heavily in cyber-crime 
prevention, working very closely with the UK government and other 
providers to create a secure digital environment.

We want to ensure we can put past conduct issues behind us, and 
have continued to de-risk and simplify our product portfolio.

You can read more about changes in regulation, and risks to the 
business in the Risk section and the Supervisory and Regulation 
sections in the Annual Report.

Business highlights
One of our highlights of 2016 has been the creation of Barclays UK 
and an even greater focus on transforming how we interact with our 
customers and use data to identify opportunities to meet their needs.

In 2016, Barclays UK RoTE excluding notable items was 19.3% 
(2015: 21.1%), as profit before tax decreased 5% to £2,587m driven by 
an increase in credit impairment charges, partially offset by a reduction 
in total operating expenses. Including notable items, reflecting provisions 
for UK customer redress, RoTE was 9.6% (2015: (0.3%)). We have seen 
strong deposit growth, a stable net interest margin and prudent growth 
in loans and advances, focused on remortgage and lower loan-to-value 
segments, and unsecured loans to existing customers.

We now have 5.7 million registered users on Barclays Mobile Banking. 
On average, customers come into our mobile app 31 times a month, 
an indication of deep engagement.

This year, we launched automated valuations for home purchases, 
shaving four to five days off processing time and transforming both the 
colleague and customer experience. We've also introduced Mortgage 
Agreement in Principle in 338 branches, allowing a customer to obtain a 
mortgage decision in less than 15 minutes. We are also offering bespoke 
mortgage products for Premier customers. Overall, our mortgage 
business is seeing significant sustainable growth.

We have focused on automating the end-to-end customer journey 
across all parts of our business, which is resulting in improved customer 
experience, reduced costs and a double-digit drop in customer 
complaints. We have made it easier for business clients to open 
accounts and borrow money from us with digital on-boarding, the 
Solicitor Portal – a dedicated portal for managing the end-to-end 
business lending journey – and pre-approved limits. Business Instant 
Lending has reduced cycle times for customers requesting unsecured 
loans of less than £25,000, from five days to a matter of minutes.

We have also launched an exciting new product for SMEs. 
SmartBusiness is a data analytics tool that allows a business to know 
its monthly sales, annual debit card transactions, year-on-year sales, 
or average transaction values in a simple snapshot, using all of our debit 
card and credit card data for that business. We believe providing these 
analytics to small businesses will help move their business forward.

We are delivering on significant opportunities in UK Cards, both by 
providing credit cards to existing current account customers, leveraging 
what we have learnt in digital delivery of consumer lending, and by 
extending programmes like SmartSpend and Features Store to all UK 
Cards customers.

Pingit, our app where you can undertake a transaction whether or not you 
are a Barclays customer, now has 3.2 million registered users. Its companion 
app is our reference tool, Cloudit, which allows all correspondence with the 
bank to be stored on a customer's personal cloud.

We are the only bank in Europe to have launched video banking, rolling 
it out at scale, and encrypting the process. And we're the first bank 
in the UK to introduce contactless cash – a completely new way for 
our customers to withdraw cash, using contactless technology. 

We have made significant changes to our business in 2016, and I am 
confident that in 2017 we will continue on our path of innovation and growth.

Ashok Vaswani
CEO, Barclays UK

Barclays UK operational model

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
28 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Personal Banking
Summary

Personal Banking provides simple and 
transparent banking products to around 
16 million customers, helping them to 
anticipate and fulfil their financial needs.  
This can range from opening a first bank 
account as a young person to managing 
finances in retirement, or from everyday 
insurance to buying a home. 
A core element of our Personal Banking 
business is to use technology to automate 
transactions, enabling us to interact with 
customers about what is important to them, 
when and how they want.

The scale and reach of Personal Banking offers a unique opportunity to 
help people move forward, with confidence, in an increasingly dynamic 
and changing financial environment.

We are continuing to transform our customer experience, by building 
innovative technology to make banking easier. This more efficient 
technology also allows our colleagues more time to spend with 
customers, all of which positions us well for the future.

Our focus is, therefore, on delivering an outstanding experience for our 
customers, our colleagues and the communities in which we operate. 
We believe in building relationships that show we understand individual 
and collective circumstances to such a degree that we can provide a 
solution that is both relevant and meaningful. We offer choice and 
flexibility in how to meet the different needs of our diverse customer 
base and we are proud to be the first UK bank to launch voice security 
and secure video banking.

Discovering the value of connecting customers with other people 
within their communities has proved to be a great success. Our 
branches are providing spaces for Incubators and Barclays Accelerator 
projects, for Digital Eagle sessions and also Eagle Labs – not only 
educating customers on new and different technologies, but providing 
them with space to meet, collaborate, network and build on ideas.

Our innovative technology is industry leading and we are award-winners 
for our work on intuitive products and ways of banking that suit 
customer needs. Launching such a broad combination of products, 
services and convenient ways to conduct everyday banking has meant, 
however, that we continue to see counter transactions decline. 
Nevertheless, we have evolved our physical estate and invested in areas 
such as Newcastle, with our new city centre branch, and also redesigned 
our Fenchurch Street and Hanover Square branches in London, to better 
suit the banking needs of the communities there. Our highly-automated 
consumer lending business to existing customers is growing fast, 
making Barclays the biggest digital unsecured personal lender in the UK.

Significant improvements have been made to the customer experience, 
by looking at the end-to-end experience from our customers' viewpoint. 
This is an ongoing programme, but has already resulted in a double-digit 
drop in customer complaints, as well as helping to lower costs and 
improve control.

Rewarding customers' loyalty has been a focus for 2016. Blue Rewards, 
including cashback, Premier Exclusives and the launch of welcome gifts 
for first-time homebuyers, are good examples of this. We wanted to 
create moments that stand out for our customers, and to make their 
lives easier by simplifying our processes. This supports our ambition 
to build better relationships with our customers at all levels.

 We are continuing to transform our 
customer experience by building innovative 
technology to make banking easier.  

We have improved the support we offer the communities we serve, 
making it easier for students and young professionals to open an 
account. In addition, we are continuing our support to military 
personnel to improve their access to banking.

We are creating an environment for our colleagues that inspires them to 
be passionate and empathetic and that makes them feel empowered to 
find solutions for our customers – in turn, helping our customers move 
forward and achieve their financial ambitions.

Performance review

Barclays UK

What's an Eagle Lab?
Our Eagle Labs form part our Digital Eagles initiative, opening up 
under-used space in our branches and offices. The aim is to boost 
the UK's innovation, digital and ‘maker' skills by offering support and 
training on new technologies and techniques. We have opened nine 
Labs so far, including Cambridge, Bournemouth and Brighton. 
As well as businesses, our Labs are open to their communities. 
They are developing manufacturing skills to inspire future innovators, 
and giving the UK's digital skills a much needed boost. Our Brighton 
Lab helped transform the life of Rilee, aged three, who was born 
with only one hand and forearm. Rilee was too young to receive 
a prosthetic hand from the NHS. Over several months, Our Lab 
technician Jon Paterson, designed and 3D-printed a prosthetic hand 
and arm for Rilee. By using open source innovation and the latest 
manufacturing methods, our Eagle Lab has helped Rilee in a way 
that is immeasurable.

 For further information, see  
labs.uk.barclays

<Page End><Page Start>
5412
 402

0 86
18 2

857

5412 7512 3412 3456

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 29

Barclaycard Consumer UK
Summary

Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading 
credit card provider in the UK. 
We are a responsible lender and help 
consumers fund purchases by providing 
credit based on their credit history, ability to 
afford credit and our risk appetite. We enable 
consumers to pay in the way that suits them 
– by card, online, mobile or using a wearable 
device, including Barclaycard Contactless 
Mobile and Apple Pay. 
We are customer focused and invest in 
people, processes and future technologies 
in order to continue to play a leading role in 
the industry and help our customers move 
forward every day.

In 2016, Barclaycard celebrated its 50th anniversary, having launched the 
first credit card in the UK in 1966. We have been responsible for many firsts 
– from company credit cards through Chip & PIN to contactless, mobile 
payments and most recently our range of wearable payment options. 
As Barclays is the only major UK card issuer and payment acceptance 
provider, we are in a unique position to shape the payments landscape, 
make businesses more successful and give people greater control 
over their money. 

In UK Cards, we offer three core credit card products. Our Barclaycard 
Initial credit card is aimed at customers who are looking for a first credit 
card, or have a limited credit history, and helps them to build a credit 
profile. Our Barclaycard Platinum card offers promotional savings on 
balance transfers and purchases for borrowers with good credit history. 
Alternatively, shoppers can earn reward points everywhere they shop 
with our Barclaycard Freedom Rewards credit card. All our products are 
underpinned by terms and conditions that have received the Plain 
English Crystal Mark. 

Every Barclaycard comes with additional features and benefits, including 
ways to manage accounts online and on the go with the Barclaycard 
App. We offer free Experian Credit Scores and a range of entertainment 
benefits. We also give support to consumers by providing guides on how 
to protect themselves from fraud, how they can protect their purchases 
and what to do if they have money worries. 

We're continuously looking for ways to improve the customer experience 
we deliver. We track our Transactional Net Promoter Score (TNPS) after 
customer interactions and use social media as a way to get feedback 
from our customers and improve our processes. Since UK Cards was 
brought under the Barclays UK structure in March, we have been looking 
for ways to enhance the services we provide to our joint customers. For 
example, Barclays customers can now apply for a Barclaycard through 
the Barclays Mobile Banking app, with guaranteed pre-approvals for 
eligible customers. 

The unsecured lending and consumer payments markets continue 
to experience considerable change, driven by new entrants, new 
technologies, changing consumer expectations and behaviour. We are 
continuing to invest in new technology and to develop pioneering new 
products and services for our consumers, for example we launched 
proprietary contactless Android capability through our app, six months 
ahead of our nearest competitor. 

We are pleased to have won a number of awards, acknowledging the 
market-leading products and services we offer our consumers. We won 
Best Overall Credit Card Provider at the Money Pages Personal Finance 
Awards 2016/17. In addition, we have won awards for our support for 
vulnerable customers and our use of social media. 

Money Worries hub 
Many people hide from debt problems because they are 
embarrassed, and can find it difficult to ask their bank for help.  
We have created the Money Worries hub, in partnership with 
StepChange Debt Charity, to encourage customers to come forward 
and ask for support by showing that we understand their situation 
and are here to help. The Money Worries hub is designed to help 
customers understand how UK Cards has helped people who 
have been in similar situations and how they can help someone 
they care about.

For further information, see  
barclaycard.co.uk/personal/customer/money-worries

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
30 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Wealth Overview
In our Wealth business, our bankers provide overall advice to our clients 
and co-ordinate access to specialists within Wealth and the wider 
Barclays UK division. Clients benefit from our expertise in personal 
banking, credit cards, business banking and digital innovation.

A sharp focus on our fundamental business drivers in Wealth, 
throughout 2016, has resulted in strong underlying asset growth, 
generating both sustainable income growth and an improvement 
in our Cost: Income ratio.

We have continued to enhance our Wealth client experience in 2016, 
most notably with the launch of the Barclays Mobile Banking for 
Wealth app, which introduced innovative features, such as historical 
performance analysis, benchmark comparison functionality and asset 
class drilldowns.

We have reduced our risk by refocusing our Wealth business on our core 
markets in the UK. The overall wealth market remains stable and we 
anticipate that it will remain competitive. We feel the business is 
relatively insulated from the effects of FinTech on traditional financial 
services, as our clients have a preference for personal service and human 
interaction.

Business Banking Overview
We provide coverage for clients across the UK at every stage of their 
business cycle in every industry, delivering distribution models which 
match clients' needs and sophistication. We serve our clients through 
a relationship-based and digitally-driven model, combining an on-the-
ground and direct relationship model with unique digital solutions. 
A number of innovations were launched in 2016, including instant 
lending online, and on mobile, plus on-demand cash pick-up. 
We are the only UK bank to offer these services.

In 2016, we launched new tools for our Business Banking colleagues 
bringing relevant, up-to-date industry information together in one place, 
enhancing our service to clients through deeper insights and understanding.

The Industry Knowledge Hub, for example, brings together 150 
client-shareable industry snapshots, external industry news, industry 
marketing and thought leadership into one easily-accessible place for 
colleagues. We are looking to continue enhancements to the platform 
in 2017, including the ability for colleagues to personalise their industry 
reports and bookmark their most used reports.

 We ensure a strong focus on conduct  
and customer outcomes through creating  
a secure and controlled environment and 
have mobilised comprehensive and 
experienced teams to monitor, anticipate  
and resolve issues.  

Wealth, Entrepreneurs and 
Business Banking
Summary

Barclays' wealth offering delivers a truly 
holistic wealth management service that 
includes domestic private banking, wealth 
planning, trust and fiduciary services, 
investment management and brokerage.
Business Banking supports over one million 
clients, across the UK, run and grow their 
business, from start-ups to mid-sized 
businesses. Our model is relationship-based 
and digitally-driven. 
We aim to allow clients to access the products 
they need, in the way they want – online, 
mobile or by working with a Relationship 
Manager. We put our clients at the heart of  
our business, delivering the service they need, 
in the way they choose.

Performance review

Barclays UK

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 31

Voice Security
Voice Security is a new and innovative way for our customers 
across Barclays UK to identify themselves via telephone banking 
as they no longer need to remember passwords, passcodes or 
transactional information. The service launched in August 2016 
and is so far available to over 750,000 Personal customers. 
Customer feedback has been extremely positive; ‘it's so easy 
and more natural', ‘it's great for me because I can never 
remember my banking passcode', ‘that was so quick'.

 For further information, see  
barclays.co.uk/voice-security

The launch of our market-leading ‘Direct regionally focused Relationship 
managers' for small businesses provides a firm platform for growth and, 
in 2016, we transitioned 830,000 clients into the new model. We will use 
the Direct team to help businesses grow, through our personal contact 
at key moments.

An area of focus for us in 2016 has been a programme of education on 
cyber-fraud, for both clients and colleagues. We have provided all 
colleagues with training to equip them to discuss the main cyber-threats 
with their clients. We have also provided clients with in-depth sessions 
via face-to-face events and webinars. Many of these have been run in 
partnership with local Chambers of Commerce, councils and various 
business partners, allowing us to support our clients alongside their 
supply chains and communities.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
32 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance review

Barclays International

Summary

Barclays International is a diversified 
transatlantic, wholesale and consumer bank 
which will be housed within Barclays Bank 
PLC, the future non-ring-fenced bank. 
We seek to compete in markets where we 
have the competitive advantage and scale 
to provide best-in-class service to our clients 
and customers. We seek to maintain and 
further our position as a leading provider 
of financial services to corporates, 
institutions and individuals.

Market and environment in which the division operates
In 2016, heightened political uncertainty in both of our home markets, 
caused significant volatility in capital markets and material movements 
in currency markets, particularly in Sterling. 

In spite of this, the environment in which we are operating in is more 
stable than it has been for a number of years. The implications of a 
number of post-crisis regulations on the business models of banks, 
in particular investment banks, have become clearer through 2016 as 
a number of key regulations have either taken effect or been clarified. 
As part of complying with Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act, Barclays 
and other large foreign banking organisations operating in the US were 
required to establish a US Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) by 
1 July 2016. The IHC is an umbrella holding company for the Bank's US 
subsidiaries, and is subject to Federal Reserve prudential standards 
to ensure safety and soundness, particularly around capital, liquidity 
and risk management. Barclays' IHC became operational on 1 July 2016 
and its key subsidiaries include Barclays Capital Inc. (US broker-dealer) 
that operates key investment banking businesses and Barclays Bank 
Delaware that operates Barclaycard US.

The implementation of our strategy, which is in-line with the UK 
ring-fencing regulations, has resulted in the creation of Barclays 
International as a sister division to Barclays UK under the Barclays PLC 
Group umbrella. Barclays Bank PLC, the future non-ring fenced banking 
entity, will continue to house the Barclays International division.

Supported by the newly created Group Service Company, Barclays 
International is reliant on the support of internal operations and 
technology to maximise efficiency for customers and clients and meet 
the requirements of our regulators. In a dynamic environment we need 
to be setting trends, by using forward-looking technology and adapting 
quickly and proactively to the evolving regulatory and market conditions.

For example, in the payments space, technological evolution, regulation 
and consumer behaviour is driving disruption, which is likely to 
transform the way in which consumers and businesses transact. 

Barclays International encompasses the following businesses:
■■ Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB)
■■ Consumer, Cards and Payments (CC&P)

These businesses combine to form a diversified, yet highly 
complementary portfolio of businesses that has proved to be resilient 
in a year of significant uncertainty and change. We consciously focus 
our efforts and resources on products, sectors and geographies where 
we have a meaningful competitive advantage.

Our dual home markets, in the UK and US, anchor our business in the 
two most important global financial centres and two of the most 
resilient western economies.

Barclays International brings together a portfolio of businesses serving 
consumers, SMEs, corporates and institutional investors. On the 
consumer side, Barclaycard International provides consumers with credit 
cards and lending. In Private Bank & Overseas Services, we provide 
banking, investment and wealth management services across the client 
continuum, globally. For SMEs and corporates, we enable payment 
acceptance, commercial card payments and point-of-sale finance. 
Through our CIB, we also serve corporates by providing advice on raising 
new equity or debt capital, and support our institutional investors by 
enabling them to trade stocks and bonds.

Our business model in Barclays International, especially CIB, is dependent 
upon client relationships and the services that we provide to these clients. 
Armed with these financial tools, we help our clients execute their 
business strategies and grow their businesses. This may result in capital 
raised to build a new production centre and in turn, create employment 
as well as product creation for pension funds to invest in. 

Tim Throsby joined Barclays in January 2017  
as President of Barclays International and  
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporate and 
Investment Bank. He sits on the Group 
Executive Committee and reports to the Group 
CEO, Jes Staley. Tim has had an extensive 
career in banking and private equity and has 
most recently worked for JP Morgan, becoming 
the Global Head of Equities in 2012. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 33

Customers  
and Clients
■■ Corporates
■■ Financial institutions
■■ Institutional investors
■■ Governments
■■ Consumers
■■ High, and Ultra-High  

Net Worth Individuals
■■ Family Offices

Products  
and services
■■ Financial advice
■■ Primary capital raising and 

capital markets execution
■■ Risk and liquidity 

management
■■ Lending
■■ Sales and trading
■■ International credit cards
■■ Consumer payments
■■ Banking
■■ Investments
■■ Wealth management

Value  
creation
■■ To our customers & clients – 

we create value by facilitating 
the transmission of money 
from providers to users of 
capital 

■■ To society – we provide 
financing, including to select 
social and environmental 
segments

■■ To Barclays – as a diversified 
transatlantic, wholesale and 
consumer bank

Contribution  
to Group
■■ £15bn Income
■■ £4.2bn Profit before tax
■■ 9.8% RoTE
■■ 63% Cost: Income ratio
■■ £213bn Risk Weighted 

Assets

Risks to the operating model
Global volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty in some markets remains 
a risk. While the UK's vote to leave the EU does not change our overall 
strategic objectives, we realise that it will add complexity in the shorter 
term to our operations in the EU.

The volume and reach of regulatory change continues to require 
significant attention and presents a number of challenges in the medium 
term. However, we have demonstrated our ability to react early to 
regulatory changes, and the impact they have on our operating 
environment, often turning challenges into competitive advantages.

Data and technology drive benefits for our customers and clients. The 
importance of complying adequately with data protection laws and 
protecting this information from increasingly sophisticated criminals 
remains at the forefront of our operations.

The frequency and reach of cyber-attacks has markedly increased, and 
financial institutions, such as Barclays, are obvious targets for malicious 
cyber-activity. We are very focused on ensuring our cyber-defences stay 
ahead of the increasingly sophisticated threats that we face.

In addition, preparing the business for structural reform continues. 
Barclays International is now operating as a separate segment within the 
Group, but a number of execution milestones remain before we achieve 
the Group's target state structure. We are very conscious of ensuring 
that our clients and customers face the minimum possible disruption 
from this transition.

We continue to strengthen our resilience to conduct risk and are working 
to put legacy conduct issues behind us.

Business highlights
Barclays International RoTE was 8.0% (2015: 9.5%), excluding notable 
items, as profit before tax decreased 3% to £3,747m driven by increased 
credit impairment charges and increased operating expense. This was 
partially offset by strong income growth, including the benefit from the 
appreciation of the US Dollar and the Euro against GBP. On a statutory 
basis, RoTE was 9.8% (2015: 7.2%).

Barclays has taken a leadership role in Blockchain technology in 
the banking sector, together with enhancements in data analytics, 
cyber-security and innovative identification and verification 
techniques. This has enabled us to utilise innovation to deliver 
improved client service.

We became the first organisation in the world to use a Blockchain-
enabled trade transaction to transfer original shipping documentation. 
The initiative helped the client complete a process that usually takes 10 
days in just 4 hours, mostly due to allowing for paperless exchange of 
documents, full transparency through the supply chain and mitigation 
of financial crime risks. For further information refer to the case study 
on page 7.

Transparency and the intelligent use of data has been a key focus. We 
continued to roll out the SPECS platform across Barclays. SPECS provides 
buy-side traders with an online portal to view, verify and request changes 
to client order handling settings. It meets requirements for greater control, 
transparency, trade analytics and a consolidated view of order settings. 

Our payments expertise and dedication to our customers and clients 
has enabled us to retain and grow relationships with partners and clients 
such as American Airlines, in US Cards, and TfL, through our payment 
acceptance proposition, as well as launching new partnerships such 
as with JetBlue Airways. In addition, we expanded our lending offering 
with new personal loans launched in the US and Germany and a new 
partnership with Apple on the iPhone upgrade programme in the UK.

We have made encouraging progress in fraud and cyber-protection 
in 2016, and will continue to focus on this critical area. For instance, 
in the Corporate Bank we have introduced cutting-edge malware and 
remote attack detection solutions and introduced a new PIN Pad reader 
and Barclays Biometrics reader in the UK, to tackle PIN capture fraud.

The services we offer to our customers and clients have been recognised 
by industry awards: International Financing Review (IFR) magazine 
named Barclays its house of the year for North America high-yield 
bonds, Americas loans and Sterling bonds in its 2016 review of the year. 
Our research platform ranked third for Developed Markets Research 
across Equities and Fixed Income in the Institutional Investor 2016 
survey, reflecting alignment with our transatlantic strategy. In addition, 
we won ‘Best Investment Bank Western Europe' in the 2016 Euromoney 
Awards for Excellence.

Tim Throsby
President, Barclays International and Chief Executive Officer,  
Corporate and Investment Bank 

Barclays International operational model

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
34 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Corporate and Investment Bank
Summary

The CIB offers wholesale banking products and 
services to corporate and institutional investor 
clients. The business is anchored around our 
two home markets – two of the largest capital 
markets in the world. We have adapted early to 
regulatory and markets changes, positioning 
the business to retain our position as a leading 
European CIB.

The creation of Barclays International has helped us to better align our 
businesses so that we now present a single integrated view of Barclays 
to our corporate and institutional clients through our CIB and deliver 
synergies to the business. The CIB offers clients a full service capability 
through its two divisions:

■■ Banking offers long-term strategic advice on mergers and acquisitions, 
corporate finance and strategic risk management solutions, equity 
and credit origination capabilities, coupled with lending and 
transaction banking products

■■ Markets provides execution, prime brokerage and risk management 
services across the full range of asset classes, including equity and 
fixed income and currency products.

We have extensively simplified our CIB over the past three years, making 
challenging strategic choices to reduce our activities in certain products 
and geographies, to better position the business for the regulatory and 
market conditions that we now face. In spite of the heightened political 
uncertainty that we have seen through 2016, the environment that we 
are operating in is more stable than it has been for a number of years, 
and we are beginning to see the positive implications of making early 
strategic decisions on our CIB business model. We aim to retain our 
position as a leading European CIB, competing with the US-domiciled 
banks in our chosen products and markets.

As part of our Banking division, we aim to help clients large and small, 
improve performance and enable businesses to grow. We review individual 
business needs to offer bespoke solutions suited to particular business 
objectives. For example, through our asset finance operations, Barclays 
can be an enabler in the transition to greener operations through 
financing more efficient manufacturing sites and green supply chains. 
We support lending to high growth businesses who typically have 
difficulty accessing bank finance, as well as through larger infrastructure 
project finance, where we have supported the financing of over 500 Mega 
Watts of clean energy in the UK and Ireland in 2016, equivalent to 
powering c.220,000 homes per annum. 

Further information can be found in the case study below, and in the 
ESG supplement available at home.barclays.com/annualreport 

Performance
Our Banking business had a strong performance in 2016 gaining share, 
particularly in our home markets of the UK and US where we ranked 5th 
by fee share for all clients in M&A, equity and debt capital markets and 
syndicated loan transactions in 2016 (Dealogic). This momentum helps 
us retain and hire talented individuals and further develop our 
relationships with our corporate client base. Landmark transactions 
that we have closed in 2016 include:

■■ financial advisor to Teva Pharmaceutical in its acquisition of Allergan's 
generic drug business 

■■ joint bookrunner on the two largest US leveraged loan financings of 
2016 for Dell and Avago 

■■ active joint bookrunner and global coordinator in the second-largest 
corporate investment grade bond offering ever, ABInBev's M&A IG 
Bond financing.

Markets income increased compared to 2015 with strong performances 
in the underlying businesses. Credit income benefitted from a strong 
performance in fixed income flow credit and emerging markets 
businesses, which benefitted from increased market volatility and client 
demand. Macro income benefitted from an increase in activity post the 
UK's vote to leave the EU and US elections. These performances were 
partially offset by a decrease in Equities, reflecting the simplification of 
the EMEA business and lower client activity in Asia.

Performance review

Barclays International

Financing innovation
As part of our High Growth and Entrepreneurs Proposition, we have 
partnered with The European Investment Fund (EIF) through the 
InnovFin SME Guarantee scheme to support firms who typically have 
difficulty accessing bank finance. The scheme is financially backed by 
the EIF, enabled by the European Commissions Horizon 2020 
programme, which covers 50% of loan losses that supports Barclays 
when lending to these early stage businesses. Pod Point is an electric 
vehicle charging developer. Its founder and chief executive, Erik Fairbairn, 
started the business in 2009 with his own savings, and then secured 
backing from the angel investor Peter Hiscocks, before he turned to 
crowdfunding in 2014 raising £1.5m, and a further £2m in 2015.

In 2016 Barclays provided Pod Point with funding in the form of a 
£1m EIF-backed loan, to help the business fulfil its mission of having 
a ‘top-up' charge point anywhere people park for an hour or more.

The company now has over 25,000 customers and provides public 
charging stations at over 1.500 locations nationwide.

 To find out more, see  
barclayscorporate.com/insight-and-research/lending

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 35

Consumer, Cards and Payments
Summary

Consumer, Cards and Payments is the 
consolidated reporting structure for 
Barclaycard International and the Private 
Bank and Overseas Services.
Barclaycard International provides branded 
and co-branded consumer credit cards and 
lending to our customers and business 
solutions to our clients, globally.
Private Bank and Overseas Services provides 
banking, investment and wealth management 
services to over 163,000 clients, globally.

Barclaycard US
Our core co-brand and branded credit card business in the US has 
continued to grow strongly; we remain the ninth-largest issuer by 
balances, growing 14% over the last year. We have strengthened our 
relationship with existing partners, for example signing a major deal with 
American Airlines, and have launched a new partnership programme 
with JetBlue Airways. Our Barclaycard brand continues to get stronger in 
the US; with our Barclaycard Arrival Plus World Elite MasterCard winning 
the Best Travel Credit Card for Frequent Fliers by MONEY® Magazine.

Our successful online retail deposits business has reached US$11bn, 
supporting our overall funding strategy in the US. In November we 
launched a personal loans offering, further diversifying our product mix.

Barclaycard Business Solutions
Barclaycard provides payment acceptance, commercial payments and 
point-of-sale finance solutions to all client segments in the UK. We are a 
leading provider in all areas, including being the second-largest payment 
acceptance provider in Europe by volume.

Among our achievements this year, we have launched market-leading 
business card propositions, developed full omni-channel capabilities 
including strong data security features, and partnered with Apple to help 
launch their Apple iPhone Upgrade.

Our large corporate portfolio continued to grow, with a number of major 
new client wins and retentions, including TfL, Greggs and Centrica.

Barclaycard Germany and EnterCard
This year, Barclaycard Germany celebrated its 25th anniversary and now 
serves over 1.1 million customers. With a share of 34%, Barclaycard 
Germany is the leading issuer for revolving credit cards in Germany by 
outstanding balances. In the instalment loans market, Barclaycard Germany 
has a strong challenger position with a growth rate of 15% and 1% share. 
Innovative products and features such as the fully digital Express-Kredit 
or the Equal Payment Plan, as well as continued customer focus, drive 
exceptional customer satisfaction rankings, with the business leading 
the market for credit cards and in the top two for loans, respectively.

We also provide cards and lending in Norway, Sweden and Denmark via 
our EnterCard joint venture.

Private Bank
The Private Bank strategy going forward is to deliver personalised banking, 
investment and wealth management solutions to high net worth and ultra 
high net worth individuals, providing full access to complex and innovative 
products and services across Barclays' platforms. Clients are supported by 
a dedicated Private Banker and team of investment and wealth specialists. 
In addition, the Private Bank facilitates access to Barclays' Corporate and 
Investment Bank full suite of products and services. The Private Bank is 
now even more focused on our core competencies and poised to grow, 
demonstrated by strong underlying asset and income growth in 2016.

Overseas Services
With a full suite of banking, credit, investment and wealth management 
operations principally in the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey, our 
Overseas Services business supports client types that stretch across 
the client continuum, personal to corporate. Overseas Services is the 
gateway to the wider Barclays Group, providing offshore capabilities 
and expertise. The business delivered solid results in 2016, with strong 
liability growth, coupled with continued focus on cost management, 
resulting in a strong Cost:Income ratio and returns in 2016.

Supporting our communities
Building on our commitment to make a positive difference to the 
communities in which we live and work, we delivered a number of 
successful initiatives across Barclaycard International in 2016. In the UK, 
we have launched a major new partnership with The Prince's Trust, 
helping young people build their skills and confidence, and have won 
The Prince's Trust Service to Young People Award for corporate 
volunteering. In the US and Germany we have been supporting start-ups 
through our programmes with West End Neighbourhood House and our 
Social Impact Lab incubator respectively, and helping individuals develop 
essential coding skills through our Apps Camp programme and 
partnerships with Tech Impact and Delaware State University.

Travis Perkins PLC
Travis Perkins PLC, a leading company in the builders' merchant and 
home improvement markets, was looking for a unified customer 
payments platform across its different brands. It wanted to work 
with a partner that would reduce the complexity of managing 
and maintaining a highly secure, diverse payments environment, 
while allowing the flexibility to innovate and explore new 
customer interactions.

Barclaycard Business Solutions was able to provide a true omni-
channel payments platform that offers single point management 
across multiple brands and channels, from online pay pages to 
in-store points of sale. The implementation has already seen 
Travis Perkins PLC benefit from increased card payment security 
and protection of its brand, as well as cutting transaction response 
times by up to 94%. 

For further information, see  
the-logic-group.com/cp/case-studies 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
36 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Non-Core
Summary

The Non-Core run-down is a key driver of 
the simplification of Barclays, helping to 
improve Group returns and deliver value for 
shareholders. After our accelerated progress 
in 2016, we now intend to close Non-Core 
six months early at 30 June 2017.

Non-Core was formed in 2014 to oversee the divestment of Barclays' 
non-strategic assets and businesses, releasing capital to support 
strategic growth in our Core businesses. Non-Core brought together 
businesses and assets that did not fit our strategy, remained sub-scale 
with limited growth opportunities, or were challenged by the regulatory 
capital environment. 

Non-Core is run by a dedicated management team operating within 
a clear governance framework to optimise shareholder value as 
businesses and assets are divested. It maintains a robust risk 
management framework to mitigate the risks inherent in our businesses 
and assets, as well as our divestiture and run-down processes. The 
clearly defined objectives for Non-Core are to bring down RWAs, reduce 
the ongoing operational cost base and simplify the residual portfolio and 
risks in preparation for their return to Core.

To divest Non-Core successfully we are partly dependent on external 
factors that can impact our planned run-down profile. For instance, the 
income from our businesses and assets, the quantum of associated 
RWAs and finally market appetite for Non-Core components are all 
influenced by the market environment. In addition, our ability to 
complete divestitures depends on regulatory approvals in various 
jurisdictions and regulatory changes in the treatment of RWAs can 
impact our ‘stock' of RWAs. 

2016 was an important year for Non-Core as RWAs were reduced by 
41% to £32bn, preparing the division for reintegration into the Core in 
2017. The loss before tax increased to £2.8bn, reflecting the acceleration 
of the run-down during the year, where significant progress was made 
across all three components of Non-Core. Business RWAs were reduced 
by £4bn, with the completion of the sales of Barclays Risk Analytics and 
Index Solutions, the Asia Wealth and Investment Management business, 
the Southern European cards business, and the Italian retail business. 
We also made good progress in the run-down of Derivatives, reducing 
RWAs by £10bn, and Securities & Loans by £3bn respectively. 

Given the progress made in 2016, we intend to close Non-Core six 
months early at 30 June 2017, with c.£25bn of RWAs, meaning that we 
will have reduced Non-Core RWAs by c.£85bn in just over three years. 
We expect Non-Core losses in 2017 to be significantly lower than in 
2016, with further reductions thereafter once the remaining assets 
are reabsorbed back into the Core where they will continue to be 
managed down.

Africa
Summary

As part of the strategic review on 1 March 2016, 
Barclays announced its intention to sell down 
its stake in BAGL to a level that would permit 
regulatory deconsolidation.

Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL) is a leading pan-African diversified 
financial services provider headquartered in South Africa, with 
meaningful operations across the continent (Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, 
Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and 
Zambia), and is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 

During 2016, we sold a 12.2% stake, reducing our previous 62.3% 
holding to 50.1%. Further sell-down to a level that will permit regulatory 
deconsolidation is expected, and it is currently the Boards intention to 
maintain a minority shareholding and a commercial relationship with 
BAGL. Both would need to be consistent with the aim of achieving 
regulatory deconsolidation.

BAGL is represented in Barclays accounts through Africa Banking. 
Africa Banking represents BAGL accounts converted to GBP, in addition 
to Barclays' goodwill on acquisition and Head Office allocations that 
are deemed to be incrementally incurred as a consequence of Barclays 
operations in Africa, such as the UK bank levy. For clarity, the income 
statement is provided on page 257. As Africa Banking meets the 
requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation, the results 
are presented as two lines in the Group income statement, representing 
profit after tax relating to our 50.1% stake, and the 49.9% portion 
attributable to the non-controlling interests in BAGL. This can be seen 
in the Group income statement on page 277.

Barclays and BAGL have been working closely together to plan and 
prepare for the successful separation and migration of BAGL's operations 
from the Barclays Group while Barclays assesses sell-down options, both 
on and off-market. This work has culminated in the agreement of terms 
for transitional services and supporting arrangements with BAGL, the 
details of which have been submitted to relevant regulators as part of a 
request for approval for Barclays to sell down to below a 50% holding.

A successful regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL's operations will lead 
to further simplification for the Group, resulting in CET1 ratio uplift and 
will constitute a further step towards focusing on our core transatlantic 
consumer, corporate and investment bank operations.

Details on the performance of BAGL can be found at  
barclaysafrica.com

Performance review

Non-Core and Africa

<Page End><Page Start>
Overview of  
governance and  
financial performance

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 37

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
38 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance overview

Our shared values guide the choices we make every day…

Summary

A comprehensive corporate governance 
framework is vital… it helps ensure that  
your investment in Barclays is protected,  
while at the same time recognising the 
interests of our wider stakeholders.

For your Board, 2016 was a year of continued focus on execution and 
managing through a period of change. Our Group Chief Executive Officer, 
Jes Staley, completed his first full year in the role and the momentum that 
has been achieved under his leadership over a relatively short period has 
been notable. During this time, he has articulated a clear strategy for the 
future and put together an executive management team that is focused 
on delivering that strategy and generating sustainable returns for our 
shareholders. A comprehensive corporate governance framework is vital 
in supporting executive management in its execution of strategy and in 
driving long-term sustainable performance. It helps ensure that your 
investment in Barclays is protected, while at the same time recognising 
the interests of our wider stakeholders. 

Supporting strategy execution 
The Board's agenda during 2016 was focused on overseeing and 
supporting executive management in delivering on Barclays' strategic 
objectives. You will read elsewhere in this report of the progress that 
has been made with the performance of our Core business, with the 
accelerated run-down of the Non-Core businesses and with the 
sell-down of our holding in Barclays Africa. As a Board, we also spent 
a considerable amount of our time on Structural Reform, in particular 
the project to separate our retail banking operations into an independent 
legal entity within the Barclays Group. This is a significant and far-
reaching change to Barclays' operating structure. In tracking the 
progress of implementation, your Board debated the risks and challenges 
across the stakeholder spectrum, including the potential impacts on 
shareholders, employees, clients and customers. Structural Reform will 
also have a profound impact on the way in which the Barclays Board 
itself operates, especially in terms of how it interacts with the boards 
of the newly-established legal entities and with regard to talent 
management and succession planning for executive management 
and board appointments across the Barclays Group.

 Personal accountability is a central tenet  
of our culture, enabling us to achieve the 
highest standards of performance and deliver 
value for our customers and clients. It is also 
key to ensuring that trust finds its way back 
into banking and therefore underpins our 
long-term success.  

It is during such periods of transformational change that leadership 
and good governance are more important than ever. The challenge 
was heightened during 2016 by the result of the UK's referendum on 
its membership of the EU. Your Board spent time assessing Barclays' 
contingency plans and evaluating the potential impact of the UK exiting 
the EU on each of Barclays' businesses. This included the possible 
consequences for capital, operations and regulation, along with the 
impact for employees, clients and customers. Of course, the precise terms 
of the UK's exit from the EU and the long-term effects are not yet known 
and will only become clear over time. However, our strategy remains 
focused on building on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer, 
corporate and investment bank, anchored in the UK and the US.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 39

Culture, values and accountability 
As Chairman, an important part of my role is to promote the highest 
standards of corporate governance in Barclays and to ensure that this 
is supported by the right culture, values and behaviours from the top 
down. The implementation in March 2016 of the UK's Senior Managers 
Regime introduced new regulatory standards for individual 
accountability and conduct, which align closely with our established 
purpose, culture and values. Personal accountability is a central tenet of 
our culture, enabling us to achieve the highest standards of performance 
and deliver value for our customers and clients. It is also key to ensuring 
that trust finds its way back into banking and therefore underpins our 
long-term success.

John McFarlane
Chairman 

22 February 2017

Your Board

John McFarlane  Group Chairman 
Jes Staley Group Chief Executive; Executive Director 
Mike Ashley  Non-executive Director 
Tim Breedon  Non-executive Director 
Mary Francis  Non-executive Director 
Crawford Gillies  Non-executive Director 
Sir Gerry Grimstone Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
Reuben Jeffery III  Non-executive Director 
Tushar Morzaria  Group Finance Director; Executive Director 
Dambisa Moyo  Non-executive Director 
Diane de Saint Victor Non-executive Director 
Diane Schueneman Non-executive Director
Steve Thieke  Non-executive Director 

Board diversity – gender balance

31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2016

20% 21% 29% 31%

31.12.2013

3 Female 
12 Male

31.12.2014

3 Female 
11 male

31.12.2015

4 Female 
10 Male

31.12.2016

4 Female 
9 Male

For further information, see pages 39 to 133

Governance in Action
Sound corporate governance serves to support better decision-
making and accountability throughout Barclays. 

Greater detail about the work of your Board and its Committees may 
be found in our Directors' report on pages 49 to 133 and online at 
home.barclays/annualreport. You will find a series of case studies 
describing the role of the Board and its principal Committees in some 
of the significant issues we considered and decisions we took during 
2016, including:

■■ preparing for Structural Reform and the material impact it will 
have on the way in which Barclays operates in future

■■ statutory auditor transition, to facilitate a smooth handover 
of responsibilities

■■ contingency planning for the UK's EU Referendum, a significant 
external business risk event both before and after the vote

■■ measuring cultural progress, providing challenge and support to 
management in its delivery of conduct, culture and value change.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
40 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

A snapshot of how Barclays complies 
with the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) is set out below. 

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 

Leadership
There is clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who 
runs the Board, and the Group Chief Executive, who runs the Group's 
business. Individual roles on the Board and their responsibilities are set 
out in Barclays' Charter of Expectations.

The Senior Independent Director, Sir Gerry Grimstone, provides a 
sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary and is available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.

The Board has set out Barclays' culture, values and behaviours in 
Barclays' Purpose and Values and The Barclays Way, which are 
embedded throughout the Group.

Directors are expected to provide rigorous and constructive challenge 
on matters that, owing to their strategic, financial or reputational 
implications or consequences, are considered significant to the Group.

Effectiveness
The skills, knowledge and experience needed for an effective 
Board are recorded on a skills matrix, which is used by the Board 
Nominations Committee to inform Director recruitment, induction 
and on-going development. 

The composition of principal Board Committees meets the 
independence criteria of the Code and there is appropriate cross-
membership to further promote effectiveness.

10 of 13 Directors are independent non-executive Directors (77%), 
while the Chairman was independent on appointment.

At the end of 2016, there were four women Directors (31%), 
compared to our target of 33% by 2020. 

The Board Nominations Committee regularly considers Board and 
senior management succession plans.

Appointments to the Board are made via a formal, rigorous and 
transparent process, based on merit, taking into account the skills, 
experience and diversity needed on the Board in the context of Barclays' 
strategic direction.

All Directors are expected to commit sufficient time to fulfil their duties 
to Barclays. In 2016, Directors' attendance at scheduled Board meetings 
was 98% and across the scheduled Board Committee meetings was 
an average of 98%.

The Board assesses its effectiveness and that of its Committees and 
the individual Directors annually in a process that is externally facilitated 
by an independent third party. 

Directors are subject to re-election each year by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM).

Barclays' Charter of Expectations sets out responsibilities for providing 
the Board with accurate, timely and high-quality information necessary 
for it to fulfil its duties. 

Accountability
The Board is responsible for setting Barclays' Risk Appetite, i.e. the risks it 
is prepared to take in the context of achieving Barclays' strategic objectives.

Barclays' Enterprise Risk Management Framework is designed to identify 
and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to achieving 
the Barclays' strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance 
that internal controls are effective. 

The Board conducts robust assessments of the principal risks facing 
Barclays, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. It reports on this in the annual 
Viability statement (opposite).

The Directors also review the effectiveness of the Group's systems 
of internal control and risk management.

The Board has put in place processes to support the presentation 
to shareholders of fair, balanced and understandable information.

The Board Audit Committee, comprising independent non-executive 
Directors, oversees the effectiveness of Barclays' internal and 
external auditors.

Remuneration 
The Board Remuneration Committee, comprising independent 
non-executive Directors, sets overarching Group remuneration policy 
and approves the remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, 
the executive Directors and other senior executives.

The Board Remuneration Committee seeks the views of Barclays' major 
shareholders on remuneration matters. This engagement is meaningful 
and contributes directly to the decisions it makes.

Barclays' reward framework is simple and transparent and is designed 
to support and drive business strategy and long-term success.

To ensure alignment with shareholder interests, a significant part of 
performance-related pay is delivered through Barclays' shares.

Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to malus. Clawback also 
applies to any variable remuneration awarded to PRA Material Risk 
Takers after 1 January 2015.

Engagement
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, together with other 
Board representatives and the Company Secretary, hold meetings with 
investors focusing on corporate governance matters.

The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director present quarterly results 
briefings and the Group Finance Director holds briefings for equity and 
debt sellside analysts.

Regular engagement with Barclays' brokers ensures that the Group's 
strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and 
provides a better understanding of investor views.

The Board receives feedback on investor relations activity, along with 
regular reports of changes in holdings of substantial shareholders and 
reports on share price movements. 

A number of events are held throughout the year to maintain an open 
dialogue with investors, of which the AGM is the most important.

Governance overview

Our shared values guide the choices we make every day…

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 41

Viability statement
While the financial statements and accounts have been prepared on 
a going concern basis, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires 
the Directors to make a statement in the Annual Report regarding 
the viability of the Group, including explaining how they assessed the 
prospects of the Group, the period of time for which they have made 
the assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.

In light of the analysis set out below, the Board has assessed the 
Group's viability and confirms that the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years. This 
timeframe is used in management's Working Capital and Viability 
Report (WCR) dated 16 February 2017. The availability of the WCR 
gives management and the Board sufficient visibility and confidence 
on the future operating environment for this time period. The three 
year timeframe has also been chosen because:
■■  it is within the period covered by the Group's future projections of 

profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and capital resources;
■■ it is also within the period over which regulatory and internal stress 

testing is carried out and in the current environment it is necessary 
for the Board to ensure confidence in the Group is maintained over 
the shorter term; and

■■ as a consequence of the unparalleled level of regulatory change in 
the financial services industry, a three year timeframe is appropriate.

The Directors are satisfied that this period is sufficient to enable a 
reasonable assessment of viability to be made.

In making their assessment the Board has:
■■  carried out a regular and robust assessment of the Group's risk 

profile and material existing and emerging risks. Notable among 
these are risks which senior management believe could cause the 
Group's future performance (i.e. results of operations or financial 
condition) to differ materially from current expectations, including 
the ability to meet dividend expectations, maintain minimum levels 
of regulatory capital and meet solvency targets (including capital, 
leverage and total loss absorbing capacity including TLAC/MREL) 
over the period of the assessment;

■■ reviewed how those risks are managed and controlled (see below and 
also further detail provided on pages 146 to 162);

■■  considered the WCR which provides an assessment of forecast 
CET1, leverage ratio, Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as well as the 
build-up of MREL up to 2022;

■■  reviewed the Group's liquidity and funding profile, particularly 
Barclays' internal liquidity risk appetite (LRA) and regulatory liquidity 
coverage ratios;

■■  considered the Group's viability under specific internal and regulatory 
stress scenarios (further details below);

■■ considered the stability of the major markets in which it operates, 
the risks posed by the simplification of the business model and 
regulatory changes;

■■ reviewed the statutory accounts and the in-depth disclosure of the 
financial performance of the Group; 

■■ considered the Group's medium term plan (MTP); and
■■  reviewed the legal, competition and regulatory matters set out in 

Note 29 to the financial statements on pages 330 to 338.

Conduct, capital and operational risks are controlled and managed in 
line with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and the relevant 
Principal Risk Frameworks. Executive management set a Risk Appetite 
for the Group, which is then approved by the Board. The second line 
set limits, within which the first line are required to operate. 
Management and the Board then oversee the associated Risk Profile. 

In relation to regulatory change, the firm has a fully resourced project 
team, dedicated to understanding and implementing changes required 
by Structural Reform.

Particular risks to viability identified by the Board are detailed below. 
These have been chosen on the basis of their ability to impact viability 
over the timeframe of the assessment. In some instances, however, 
the risks exist beyond this timeframe:
■■ legacy conduct matters and the potential risk of fines and 

other sanctions;
■■ the cost and scale of regulatory change in the financial services 

industry, including the implementation of structural reform, which 
could impact ratings, alter the behaviour of depositors and affect the 
ability of the firm to maintain appropriate capital and liquidity ratios; 
and

■■ evolving operational risks (notably cyber security, technology and 
resilience) and potential impact on operations and/or payment systems.

The Board has also considered the Group's viability under specific 
internal and regulatory stress scenarios.

The latest internal stress test conducted in Q4 2016 (which was 
concluded on 16 February 2017) considered the potential impacts of:
■■ a severe global recession;
■■ decelerating growth in China and emerging markets;
■■ UK housing market weakness; and
■■ a significant and sustained fall in commodity prices.

Litigation matters and remediation/redress are assessed as part of 
the stress testing process. Capital risk appetite and LRA were set at a 
level which would enable the Group to withstand the stress scenario, 
based on expected financial performance. Management also identified 
actions, including cost reductions and withdrawal from lines of 
business, available to restore the Group to its desired capital flightpath 
under a range of operating environments.

The Group-wide stress testing framework also includes reverse 
stress testing techniques which aim to identify and analyse the 
circumstances under which the Group's business model would no 
longer be viable, leading to a significant change in business strategy 
and to identify appropriate mitigating actions. Examples include 
extreme macroeconomic downturn (‘severely adverse') scenarios, or 
specific idiosyncratic events, covering both operational risk (e.g. cyber 
attack) and capital/liquidity events.

These internal stress tests informed the conclusions of the WCR. 
Based on current forecasts, incorporating key known regulatory 
changes to be enacted and having considered possible stress 
scenarios, the current liquidity and capital position of the Group 
continues to support the Board's assessment of the Group's viability.

The Board also reviewed external regulatory stress test results which 
are designed to assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic 
developments and ensure that we have robust forward looking planning 
processes for the risks associated with our business profile. Barclays was 
not required to submit revised capital plans as a result of these tests.

The Board's assessment of the Group's viability over the next three 
years is subject to material existing and emerging risks highlighted 
on pages 137 to 144. Future events, such as the crystallisation of any 
of these risks may require the Board to review dividend policy.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
42 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Summary

We recognise that fostering the right culture  
at Barclays is critical to our success and we 
want to play a leading role in defining the 
future of banking, restoring trust and respect 
for our profession.

We are four years into a cultural change journey at Barclays and we 
have a clear set of values that guide how we work and how we act. 
We are continuing to make progress to further embed and sustain a 
values-based culture through initiatives aimed at strengthening the 
profession of banking. We recognise that fostering the right culture at 
Barclays is critical to our success and we want to play a leading role in 
defining the future of banking, restoring trust and respect for our 
profession. We have placed continued focus on the importance of a 
values-based culture and with that in mind, conduct, culture and values 
were established as part of our key strategic priorities for the year. 
Throughout 2016 we have launched a number of initiatives to foster the 
right culture at Barclays and we developed a culture measurement 
framework, anchored in our values, to measure and manage progress in 
embedding a values-based culture across the organisation. We also seek 
to share across different parts of the business the initiatives that are 
having a positive impact on our culture and engagement of our employees. 

 Having constructive and empathetic 
conversations with customers reflect our 
continued focus on a values-based culture.  

To ensure we constantly review and reappraise to see what is working, 
in 2016 the annual Your View survey became a quarterly pulse survey 
(excluding Africa), providing colleagues the opportunity on a more 
regular basis to say what they are experiencing and how it feels to work 
at Barclays. In the third quarter of the year, we surveyed 50% of all 
colleagues and the remaining 50% were surveyed in the fourth quarter. 
Starting from 2017, each quarter, 25% of colleagues (excluding Africa) 
will be invited to take part in Your View. 

The Your View results have continued to measure Sustainable 
Engagement and this year we have been provided with more regular 
snapshots. The quarterly results were then aggregated at the end of the 
year into an overall annual picture of engagement. At the end of 2016, 
Sustainable Engagement of our colleagues has remained stable 
year-on-year at 75%. The quarterly results of the Your View survey and 
the indicators and insights from our culture measurement framework 
help us to assess what we are doing well and guide and focus 
management action as required across our businesses and functions. 
Each quarter the results are analysed in depth and our senior leadership 
teams across the businesses and functions work to identify relevant 
actions that will continue to foster a culture that builds the Barclays of 
the future. The results from the Your View survey, and the insights from 
the quarterly indicators within the culture measurement framework, 
evidence that we continue to make strong progress in embedding a 
values-based culture across the bank.

‘Apply within', our internal mobility programme, and the ‘Let's talk about 
how' performance management campaign, both launched this year, 
are initiatives that support the behaviours that underpin our values. 
The ‘Let's talk about how' campaign reinforces the importance that 
we place on both ‘what' our employees deliver and ‘how' they deliver. 
A new event launched this year, sponsored by the Group CEO, this was 
a step forward in developing the next generation of enterprise leaders 
who actively contribute towards rebuilding the profession of banking 
through their own leadership and their influence of others. By bringing 
together high potential senior leaders from across our businesses and 
functions we seek to strengthen collaboration and an enterprise-wide 
perspective amongst our senior leaders to deliver improved solutions 
and products for our customers and clients. 

Our culture and our people

… and the energy, commitment and passion  
of our colleagues enhances our success…

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 43

Our Wellbeing programme; Barclays Shared Growth Ambition which 
focuses on access to employment, access to financial and digital 
empowerment and access to financing; as well as the Conversation 
Framework and Empathy Diagnostic launched in Barclays UK to support 
colleagues in having constructive and empathetic conversations with 
customers, reflect our continued focus on a values-based culture that 
ensures we do the right thing for our customers and clients.

Tristram Roberts
Group Human Resources Director

Group control function rotation
We recognise that our control functions are a critical part of our 
success and that it is important for our future leaders to understand 
how the functions operate and gain perspective of the Second Line 
of Defence, as part of our risk management responsibilities. In May 
this year a control functions rotational pilot programme was 
launched by the Group CEO to support his ambition to strengthen 
the profession of banking. This programme saw a group of 
colleagues from our CIB spend three months working in our 
Compliance function as an integrated member of the Compliance 
team in order to build a greater breadth of banking experience 
and to gain greater understanding and awareness of the control 
environment. Presentations to the Group CEO and other senior 
leaders at the end of the rotation gave the group the opportunity 
to share what they learnt and the training they received, as well as 
provide insights on how the businesses and control functions can 
continue to embed a values-based culture. The feedback from the 
participants is that the rotation helped to improve communication 
and understanding between the business and the control functions; 
has driven cross-divisional training; and encouraged internal mobility 
by highlighting alternative career paths. In 2017, the number of 
participants will be increased and the programme will be expanded 
to include opportunities across other control functions. 

 For further information, on opportunities at barclays, see  
joinus.barclays.com

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
44 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Remuneration framework

… so our remuneration is reflective  
of the way we do business.

Summary

The Committee remains focused on aligning 
our pay to performance and setting pay at 
a level which allows us to attract, retain and 
motivate, but is no more than necessary 
to ensure that we accelerate the delivery 
of shareholder value. The inherent tension 
between these important considerations 
continues to be a key component of the 
Committee's deliberations.

2016 represented a year of strong progress against our strategy. The 
Committee's deliberations on the 2016 incentive pool reflected Group 
performance and strategic delivery in both the Core and Non-Core 
businesses. We reached the decision that an overall Group incentive 
pool of £1,533m, down slightly from £1,544m in 2015, is appropriate 
notwithstanding strong 2016 delivery. This level of incentive pool also 
absorbs the material adverse impact of foreign exchange movements 
through the year, which more than offset the impact of reductions in 
staff numbers in the year. 

The Core compensation to net income (excluding notable items) ratio 
decreased from 34.0% in 2015 to 32.7% in 2016 excluding the impact 
of deferral changes, increasing slightly to 34.7% including the impact 
of these changes. At a Group level, the ratio increases to 40.2% 
(2015: 37.7%) driven by Non-Core as it continues to be run down. 

From 2016, a change in the recognition timing of deferral costs, together 
with a harmonisation of deferral levels across the Group, will result in 
improvements to the Group's operational flexibility going into 2017 
and beyond. Further information on deferral changes can be found 
on page 104.

We will be seeking shareholder approval for a new Directors' remuneration 
policy at the 2017 AGM. More details can be found on page 45.

During 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that 
remuneration is aligned to the delivery of our strategy and sustainable 
shareholder returns. The Committee will also continue to monitor the 
competitiveness of our remuneration in the light of recent regulatory 
changes by the PRA, FCA and EBA. We will also continue to progress 
further our agenda to address pay inequality, which is in line with the 
proposals in the Government's Green Paper on Corporate Governance 
Reform. 

The Committee is grateful for the feedback received from our larger 
shareholders on our remuneration proposals and values the insight 
the discussions provide.

Crawford Gillies
Board Remuneration Committee (Chairman)

We continue to focus on aligning 
reward and performance
Barclays Group incentive pool
2010 – £3,484m
2011 – £2,578m
2012 – £2,168m
2013 – £2,378m
2014 – £1,860m
2015 – £1,544m
2016 – £1,533m
Note
The 2015 number has been restated from £1,669m to reflect the treatment of Africa 
Banking as a discontinued operation. The 2010-2014 numbers have not been restated.

Distribution of 2016 total 
remuneration to Group 
employees by banding
364 – £1m+
11,962 – £100k-£1m
39,990 – £25k-£100k
33,989 – £0-25k

Note
The number of employees paid above £1m is slightly down year on year on a constant 
currency basis (364 in 2016 vs. 369 in 2015). 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 45

Directors' remuneration policy
Barclays' new Directors' remuneration policy is subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM on 10 May 2017 and, if approved, is intended 
to apply immediately, for three years to the date of the 2020 AGM. The new policy has evolved from the existing policy and has been updated 
for regulatory changes, and simplified where possible.

Full details of our Directors' remuneration policy  
can be found on pages 108 to 120 

The key changes to the policy can be summarised as follows:

Key changes

Fixed pay ■■ ‘Fixed Pay' introduced, replacing salary and Role Based Pay
■■ Fixed Pay delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares (subject to 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata)
■■ Fixed Pay will not change during the policy period for either of the current executive Directors
■■ Pension allowance retained at current levels, but limited to 10% of Fixed Pay for new hires

Variable pay ■■ Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) combined for regulatory deferral purposes

Performance measures ■■ Bonus: Financial measures ≥ 60% 
■■ LTIP: Financial measures ≥ 70%

Delivery ■■ Any bonus deferral vests in equal tranches between the third and seventh anniversary of award
■■ LTIP performance is tested at end of 3 year performance period and vests in equal tranches between 

the third and seventh anniversary of award

Shareholding requirement ■■ Requirement increased to 200% of Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) within 5 years from 
the date of appointment (from 400% of salary to equivalent of 457% of salary for CEO)

■■ New requirement to hold shares worth 100% of Total fixed pay (or pro-rata thereof) for 2 years 
post-termination

Employment contracts ■■ For new hires, asymmetry for notice periods removed i.e. 6 months from the Company and 6 months 
from the Director (from 12 months from the Company and 6 months from the Director)

2017 remuneration
The following summarises how the Directors' remuneration policy would be implemented in 2017 assuming the new policy is approved by shareholders.

Fixed Pay Annual bonusa LTIPa

Jes Staley £2,350,000 Maximum 80% of Total fixed pay Maximum 120% of Total fixed pay
Tushar Morzaria £1,650,000 Maximum 80% of Total fixed pay Maximum 120% of Total fixed pay
plus competitive benefits and pension

Note
a Total fixed pay is defined as Fixed Pay plus Pension.

2016 remuneration
The following tables show a single total figure for 2016 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive and non-executive Director 
together with comparative figures for 2015.

Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 remuneration (audited)
Salary
£000

Role Based Pay
£000

Taxable benefits
£000

Annual bonus
£000

LTIP
£000

Pension
£000

Total
£000

2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Jes Staleya 1,200 100 1,150 96 169 48 1,318 – – – 396 33 4,233 277
Tushar Morzaria 800 800 750 750 44 82 854 701 1,008 – 200 200 3,656 2,533

Note
a The 2015 figures for Jes Staley relate to the period from 1 December 2015 when he joined the Board as Group Chief Executive.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
46 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Remuneration framework

… so our remuneration is reflective  
of the way we do business.

Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors (audited)
Role Based Pay (RBP)
Executive Directors received RBP which was delivered quarterly in shares, subject to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years 
(20% each year). The value shown is of shares at the date awarded.

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company 
vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.

Annual bonus
The 2016 bonus awards reflect the Committee's assessment of the extent to which the executive Directors achieved their Financial (50% weighting) 
and Balanced Scorecard (35% weighting) performance measures, and their personal objectives (15% weighting). A summary of the assessment 
against the performance measures is provided below. For more information please see pages 121 and 122.

Financial (50% weighting)

Performance measure Weighting
Threshold 

25%
Maximum 

100% 
2016

Actual
2016

Outcome
Profit before tax (excluding notable items) 20% £3.45bn £4.20bn £3.65bn 9%
Costs (excluding notable items) 10% £14.6bn £13.7bn £15.3bn 0%
CET1 ratio 20% 11.1% 11.6% 12.4% 20%
Total financial 50% 29%

Balanced Scorecard (35% weighting)
Progress in relation to each of the 5Cs of the Balanced Scorecard was assessed by the Committee. The Committee took a similar approach as for 
2015 i.e. based on a three-point scale in relation to each measure, with 0% to 2% for ‘below' target, 3% or 4% for a ‘met' target, and 5% to 7% 
for ‘above' target progress against a particular Balanced Scorecard component. Based on this approach, the Committee agreed an 18% outcome 
out of a maximum of 35%. 

Personal objectives (15% weighting)
(i)  Jes Staley: The Committee concluded that Jes Staley had delivered a very strong performance throughout the year. By the end of 2016, 

a clear new strategy was firmly embedded and a new Core organisational structure consistent with structural reform has been implemented. 
The Core businesses have performed well, delivering improved profitability and cost income efficiency. At the same time significant progress 
has been made in exiting the Non-Core businesses. Jes Staley has demonstrated strong leadership, strengthened the management team and 
has instilled a more effective performance ethic and culture within the organisation. Given his very strong performance, the Committee judged 
that 13% of a maximum of 15% was appropriate.

(ii)  Tushar Morzaria: The Committee concluded that Tushar Morzaria had delivered an outstanding performance in 2016. In doing so, the Committee 
noted the role provided by Tushar Morzaria in reshaping the business and in particular, recognised his contribution in the significant progress in 
exiting Non-Core, resulting in a reduction of £22bn in Risk Weighted Assets and his focus in delivering an organisation with a significantly higher 
CET1 ratio and lower Cost: Income ratio. In doing so, it was also noted that Tushar Morzaria has continued to develop very strong working 
relationships with shareholders, investors and regulators, while also improving the performance delivery within the Finance Functions. Given his 
exceptional personal performance during 2016, the Committee judged that 14% of a maximum of 15% was appropriate.

Overall summary
In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity being 
achieved. The resulting bonus is £1,318,000 of which 70% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from the third 
to seventh anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time).

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 61% of maximum bonus opportunity 
being achieved. The resulting bonus is £854,000 of which 60% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from the 
third to seventh anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 47

LTIP
The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzaria's 2016 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP 
award granted in 2014 in respect of performance period 2014-2016 (by reference to Q4 2016 average share price). Jes Staley was not a participant 
in this cycle. The performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual % of award vesting
Return on risk weighted assets 
(RoRWA)

50% 23% of award vests 
for average annual 
RoRWA of 1.08%

Average annual 
RoRWA of 1.52%

0.33% 0%

Loan loss rate 20% 7% of award vests for 
average annual loan 
loss rate of 70bps

Average annual loan 
loss rate of 55bps or 
below

50bps 20%

Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard 
was assessed by the Committee to determine 
the percentage of the award that may vest 
between 0% and 30%. Each of the 5Cs in the 
Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting.

See page 123 14%

The Committee was also satisfied that the discretionary underpin in respect of the underlying financial health of the Group based on profit before tax 
was met, and accordingly determined that 34% of the maximum number of shares under the total award should be considered for release in March 
2017. After release, the shares are subject to an additional two year holding period.

Pension
Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions. This is market practice for senior executives in comparable roles.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 fees (audited)
Fees Benefits Total

2016
£000

2015
£000

2016
£000

2015
£000

2016
£000

2015
£000

Chairman
John McFarlanea 800 628 1 11 801 639
Sir David Walkerb – 285 – 6 – 291
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 207 207 – – 207 207
Tim Breedon 220 232 – – 220 232
Mary Francisc 29 – – – 29 –
Crawford Gillies 195 178 – – 195 178
Sir Gerry Grimstoned 250 – – – 250 –
Reuben Jeffery III 120 135 – – 120 135
Wendy Lucas-Bulle 64 358 – – 64 358
Dambisa Moyo 135 152 – – 135 152
Frits van Paasschenf 35 88 – – 35 88
Diane de Saint Victor 118 135 – – 118 135
Diane Schuenemang,h 232 74 – – 232 74
Steve Thiekeh 221 184 – – 221 184
Sir Michael Rakei – 250 – – – 250
Sir John Sunderlandj – 60 – – – 60
Total 2,626 2,966 1 17 2,627 2,983

Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons. Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid 
by Barclays.

The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.

Notes
a John McFarlane joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2015 and as Chairman from 24 April 2015. The 2015 total includes non-executive Director 

fees of £78,000 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 24 April 2015.
b Sir David Walker retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015.
c Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016.
d Sir Gerry Grimstone joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2016 and succeeded Sir Michael Rake as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman with 

effect from 1 January 2016.
e Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016. Figures include fees received by Wendy Lucas-Bull for her role as Chairman of Barclays Africa Group Limited.
f Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.
g Diane Schueneman joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 June 2015.
h Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke both served in 2016 on the US Governance Review Board, which was an advisory board set up as the forerunner of the board of our US 

intermediate holding company which was established during 2016. They each subsequently joined the board of the US intermediate holding company on its formation. The 2015 
figures for Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke included fees of $37,500 and $75,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board. The 2016 figures include fees 
of $138,000 and $150,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board and the board of the US intermediate holding company. In addition, Steve Thieke waived 
fees of $63,000.

i Sir Michael Rake retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2015.
j Sir John Sunderland retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
C

orp
orate g

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
48 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial performance

Our strategy is on track with good progress in 2016.

Summary

2016 reflected good operational performance 
of Barclays UK and Barclays International 
reflecting the benefits of diversification 
across customers and clients, geographies 
and products.

The Core business generated a RoTE excluding notable items of 9.4% 
(2015: 11.2%) on a £4bn increased average allocated tangible equity 
base of £41bn. The Core business also generated positive cost: income 
jaws and we intend to continue to reduce the Group's structural cost 
base, targeting a Group cost: income ratio of less than 60% over time. 
The accelerated Non-Core run-down resulted in a reduction in RWAs of 
£22bn to £32bn resulting in the decision to close the unit six months 
ahead of plan on 30 June 2017. Capital ratio progression towards end 
state requirements of 150bps to 200bps above the minimum regulatory 
level was strong with a CET1 ratio of 12.4% (December 2015: 11.4%), 
largely reflecting profit generation in the period.

2016 2015
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio 12.4% 11.4%
Cost: income ratio 76% 84%
Return on average tangible shareholders' 
equity (RoTE) 3.6% (0.7%)
Total operating expenses £16,338m £18,536m
Non-Core RWAs £32bn £54bn

Group performance
■■ Return on average tangible shareholders' equity was 3.6% (2015: (0.7%)) 

and basic earnings per share was 10.4p (2015: (1.9p)) 
■■ Profit before tax increased to £3,230m (2015: £1,146m). The Group 

performance reflected good Core results while being impacted by the 
Non-Core loss before tax of £2,786m (2015: £2,603m) and provisions 
for UK customer redress of £1,000m (2015: £2,772m). The 
appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP positively impacted 
income and adversely affected impairment and operating expenses

■■ Total income decreased 3% to £21,451m as Non-Core income 
reduced £1,776m to a net expense of £1,164m due to the acceleration 
of the Non-Core run-down, while Core income increased 6% to 
£22,615m driven by Barclays International

■■ Credit impairment charges increased £611m to £2,373m including a 
£320m charge in Q316 following the management review of the UK 
and US cards portfolio impairment modelling. This resulted in a 11bps 
increase in the loan loss rate to 53bps

■■ Total operating expenses reduced 12% to £16,338m reflecting lower 
litigation and conduct charges. This was partially offset by the 
non-recurrence of the prior year gains of £429m on the valuation  
of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability, increased 
structural reform implementation costs, and a £150m charge in 
Barclays International in Q316, relating to a reduction in the real estate 
footprint which will generate savings in future periods. Operating 
expenses also included a £395m additional charge in Q416 relating 
to 2016 compensation awards 

■■ The effective tax rate on profit before tax decreased to 30.7% 
(2015: 100.3%) principally as a result of a reduction in  
non-deductible charges

■■ Profit after tax in respect of continuing operations increased to 
£2,237m (2015: loss of £3m). Profit after tax in relation to the Africa 
Banking discontinued operation decreased 6% to £591m as increased 
credit impairment charges and operating expenses were partially 
offset by income growth

■■ Notable items totalled a net loss before tax of £420m (2015: £3,330m) 
comprising provisions for UK customer redress of £1,000m 
(2015: £2,772m), a £615m (2015: £nil) gain on disposal of Barclays' 
share of Visa Europe Limited and an own credit loss of £35m 
(2015: gain of £430m)

Group capital and leverage 
■■ The fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio increased to 12.4% 

(December 2015: 11.4%) reflecting an increase in CET1 capital of 
£4.5bn to £45.2bn, despite RWAs increasing by £7bn to £366bn

 – The increase in CET1 capital was largely driven by profits of £2.1bn 
generated in the period, after absorbing the impact of notable 
items. Other favourable movements included the currency 
translation reserve as a result of the appreciation of all major 
currencies against GBP

 – The increase in RWAs was principally due to the appreciation of 
ZAR, USD and EUR against GBP and business growth, which more 
than offset RWA reductions in Non-Core

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 49

Governance

Directors' report Page
UK Corporate Governance 
Code

■■ Index to disclosures 50

Who we are ■■ Board of Directors 51
■■ Group Executive Committee 53
■■ Board diversity 53

What we did in 2016 ■■ Chairman's introduction 54
■■ Board Audit Committee report 58
■■ Board Risk Committee report 68
■■ Board Reputation Committee report 73
■■ Board Nominations Committee report 77

How we comply  84

Other statutory information 91

People 95

Remuneration report 99

Our corporate governance processes and the 
role they play in supporting the delivery of our 
strategy, including reports from the Chairman 
and each of the Board Committee Chairmen. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
50 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

 The purpose of corporate governance is to 
facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent 
management that can deliver the long-term 
success of the company. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code

The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) is not a rigid set of  
rules. It consists of principles (main and supporting) and provisions.  
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles 
and report to shareholders on how they have done so.  
You can find our disclosures as follows:

UK Corporate Governance Code – index to disclosures

Page

Leadership Every company should be headed by an effective board which is 
collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.

Board of Directors 
Composition of the Board

51 to 52
87

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of 
the company between the running of the board and the executive 
responsibility for the running of the company's business.  
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.

Roles on the Board 85

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring 
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.

Roles on the Board 85

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive 
directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals 
on strategy.

Roles on the Board 85

Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of 
skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable 
them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.

Board of Directors 51 to 52

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for 
the appointment of new directors to the board. 

Appointment and re-election 
of Directors

80

All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company 
to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 

Attendance
Time commitment 

86
87

All directors should receive an induction on joining the board and 
should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.

Induction, Training and 
development

87

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in 
a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.

Information provided to the Board 88

The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of 
its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.

Review of Board and Board 
Committee effectiveness 

81

All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, 
subject to continued satisfactory performance.

Roles on the Board 
Appointment and re-election 
of Directors

85
80

Accountability The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the company's position and prospects.

Strategic report
Risk management 
Viability statement, going concern

1 to 48
145 to 162

41, 80

The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the 
principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. 
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal 
control systems.

Risk management and 
internal control 

88 to 89

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements 
for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, 
risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the company's auditors.

Board Audit Committee report 58 to 67

Remuneration Executive directors' remuneration should be designed to promote 
the long-term success of the company. Performance-related elements 
should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.

Remuneration report 99 to 133

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing 
policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration 
packages of individual directors. No director should be involved in 
deciding his or her own remuneration.

Remuneration report 99 to 133

Relations with 
shareholders

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual 
understanding of objectives. The board as a whole has responsibility 
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.

Stakeholder engagement 89 to 90

The board should use general meetings to communicate with 
investors and to encourage their participation.

Stakeholder engagement 89 to 90

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 51

Relevant skills and experience
John is a senior figure in global banking and financial 
services circles and is in his 42nd year in the sector, 
including 22 years as a main board director, 10 years 
as a CEO and six years as a chairman. John is Chairman 
of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC. He is also a 
non-executive director of Westfield Corporation and 
Old Oak Holdings Limited. He is chairman of TheCityUK 
and a member of the Financial Services Trade and 
Investment Board and the European Financial Round 
Table. John was formerly chairman of Aviva plc, where 
he oversaw a transformation of the company and for a 
brief period he was also chairman of FirstGroup plc. 
He was also a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc, joining at the time of the UK government 
rescue. Prior to that for 10 years he was chief executive 
officer of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group 
Ltd, Group Executive Director of Standard Chartered 
plc and head of Citibank in the UK.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
Nom*

John McFarlane 
Chairman

Appointed:  
1 January 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Jes joined Barclays as Group Chief Executive on 
1 December 2015. He has nearly four decades of 
extensive experience in banking and financial services. 
He worked for more than 30 years at JP Morgan, 
initially training as a commercial banker, later 
advancing to the leadership of major businesses 
involving equities, private banking and asset 
management and ultimately heading the company's 
Global Investment Bank. Most recently, Jes served as 
Managing Partner at BlueMountain Capital. These 
roles have provided him with a vast experience in 
leadership and he brings a wealth of investment 
banking knowledge to Barclays' Board.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
None

Jes Staley 
Group Chief Executive

Appointed:  
1 December 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Gerry brings to the Board a wealth of investment 
banking, financial services and commercial experience 
gained through his senior roles at Schroders and his 
various board positions. Sir Gerry has global business 
experience across the UK, Asia, the Middle East and 
the US. Sir Gerry has significant experience as a 
non-executive director and chairman. He is currently 
the chairman of Standard Life plc, independent 
non-executive board member of Deloitte LLP and the 
lead non-executive at the Ministry of Defence. 

Other current appointments
Financial Services Trade and Investment Board

Committees
Nom, Rep*

Sir Gerry Grimstone 
Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent 
Director

Appointed: 
1 January 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Mike has deep knowledge of auditing and associated 
regulatory issues, having worked at KPMG for over 
20 years, where he was a partner. Mike was the lead 
engagement partner on the audits of large financial 
services groups including HSBC, Standard Chartered 
and the Bank of England. While at KPMG, Mike was 
Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG 
Europe LLP, responsible for the management of 
professional risks and quality control. He also held 
the role of KPMG UK's Ethics Partner.

Other current appointments
ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee; International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants; Chairman, 
Government Internal Audit Agency; Charity 
Commission

Committees
Aud*, Nom, Ris, Rep

Mike Ashley 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
18 September 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Tim joined Barclays after a distinguished career with 
Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was 
the group chief executive until June 2012. Tim's 
experience as a CEO enables him to provide 
challenge, advice and support to the Executive 
on performance and decision-making.

Tim brings to the Board extensive financial services 
experience, knowledge of risk management and UK 
and EU regulation, as well as an understanding  
of the key issues for investors.

Other current appointments
Marie Curie Cancer Care; Chairman, Apax Global 
Alpha Limited; Chairman, The Northview Group

Committees
Aud, Nom, Rem, Ris*

Tim Breedon 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 November 2012

Relevant skills and experience
Mary has extensive board-level experience across a 
range of industries.  She is a non-executive director  
of Swiss Re Group and Ensco plc and was formerly 
Senior Independent Director of Centrica and a 
non-executive director of the Bank of England, Aviva 
and Alliance & Leicester. She held senior executive 
positions in the UK Treasury and Prime Minister's 
Office and in the City as Director General of the 
Association of British Insurers. She brings to Barclays 
strong understanding of the interaction between 
public and private sectors and skills in strategic 
decision-making and all aspects of board governance.

Other current appointments
Advisory Panel of The Institute of Business Ethics 

Committees
Rem, Rep

Mary Francis CBE 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 October 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Crawford has extensive business and management 
experience, gained with Bain & Company and 
Standard Life plc. These roles have provided him 
with experience in strategic decision-making and 
knowledge of company strategy across various 
sectors and geographical locations.

Crawford has also held board and committee 
chairman positions during his career, notably as 
chairman of the remuneration committees of 
Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC.

Other current appointments
SSE plc; Control Risks International; The Edrington 
Group Limited

Committees
Aud, Nom, Rem*

Crawford Gillies 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 May 2014

Board of Directors
Barclays understands the importance of having a Board containing the 
right balance of skills, experience and diversity and the composition of 
the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board Nominations Committee. 
The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value they 
bring to the Barclays Board is described below. 

Full biographies can be accessed online via  
home.barclays/investorrelations 

Governance: Directors' report
Who we are
Board of Directors

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
52 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

Relevant skills and experience
Reuben has extensive financial services experience, 
particularly within investment banking and wealth 
management, through his role as CEO and president 
of Rockefeller & Co. Inc. and Rockefeller Financial 
Services Inc. and his former senior roles with 
Goldman Sachs, including as the managing partner of 
the Paris office. His various government roles in the 
US, including as chairman of the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission, provides Barclays' Board with 
insight into the US political and regulatory 
environment.

Other current appointments
Advisory Board of Towerbrook Capital Partners LP; 
Rothschild Capital Management Limited; Financial 
Services Volunteer Corps; The Asia Foundation

Committees
Nom, Ris

Reuben Jeffery III
Non-executive

Appointed:  
16 July 2009

Relevant skills and experience
Tushar joined Barclays in 2013 having spent the 
previous four years in senior management roles with 
JP Morgan Chase, most recently as the CFO of its 
Corporate & Investment Bank. Throughout his time 
with JP Morgan he gained strategic financial 
management and regulatory relations experience. 
Since joining the Barclays Board he has been a driving 
influence on the Group's cost reduction programme 
and managing the Group's capital plan, particularly 
in response to Structural Reform.

Other current appointments
Member of the 100 Group main committee 

Committees
None

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance 
Director

Appointed:  
15 October 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Dambisa is an international economist and 
commentator on the global economy, having 
completed a PhD in economics. Dambisa has a 
background in financial services and a wide 
knowledge and understanding of African economic, 
political and social issues, in addition to her 
experience as a director of companies with complex, 
global operations. She served as a non-executive 
director of SABMiller Plc from 2009-2016.

Other current appointments
Chevron Corporation; Barrick Gold Corporation; 
Seagate Technology plc

Committees
Rem, Rep

Dambisa Moyo
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 May 2010

Relevant skills and experience
Diane holds the role of general counsel and company 
secretary of ABB Limited, a listed pioneering 
technology leader in electrification products, robotics 
and motion, industrial automation and power grids. 
Diane's legal background, combined with her 
knowledge of regulatory and compliance 
requirements bring a unique perspective to 
discussions of the Board and its committees.

Other current appointments
American Chamber of Commerce in France

Committees
Rep

Diane de Saint Victor 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
1 March 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Diane joined Barclays after an extensive career at 
Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior roles, 
including responsibility for banking, brokerage 
services and technology provided to the company's 
retail and middle market clients, and latterly for 
IT, operations and client services worldwide. She 
brings a wealth of experience in managing global, 
cross-discipline business operations, client services 
and technology in the financial services industry. 
Diane is a member of the board of Barclays US LLC, 
Barclays US intermediate holding company.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
Aud, Ris

Diane Schueneman 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
25 June 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Steve has significant experience in financial services, 
in both investment banking with JP Morgan, where 
among other roles he served as the chairman of the 
risk management committee, and in regulation, 
through roles with the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York and the Financial Services Authority. He also has 
significant board experience, having served in both 
executive and non-executive director roles in his 
career. Steve is chairman of the board of Barclays 
US LLC.

Other current appointments
None

Committees
Ris

Steve Thieke 
Non-executive

Appointed:  
7 January 2014

Company Secretary

Relevant skills and experience
Claire is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. She has 
substantial experience in legal, compliance and 
company secretarial roles gained in-house and in 
professional services. She was appointed Barclays 
Group Company Secretary with effect from 
1 December 2016, a role she has previously held at 
Legal & General plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc. 
More recently, she was Society Secretary at the 
Co-operative Group. She is a non-executive member 
of the audit and risk committee of the Department 
for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy. 

Claire Davies

Appointed:  
1 December 2016

Note
The composition of the Board is shown as at 22 February 2017.

Who we are
Board of Directors

Committee membership key 
Aud Board Audit Committee
Nom Board Nominations Committee
Rem  Board Remuneration Committee
Rep Board Reputation Committee
Ris Board Risk Committee
* Committee Chairman

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 53



Paul Compton
Group Chief 
Operating Officer

Bob Hoyt
Group General 
Counsel

Tristram Roberts
Group Human 
Resources Director



Mike Roemer
Group Head of 
Compliance

Amer Sajed
CEO, Barclaycard 
International

Tim Throsby
President, Barclays 
International and 
Chief Executive 
Officer, Corporate and 
Investment Bank

Ashok Vaswani
CEO, Barclays UK

C.S. Venkatakrishnan
Chief Risk Officer

Group Executive Committee meetings are also attended on a regular 
basis by the Chief Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, and by an ex-officio 
member, drawn from senior management. The current ex-officio 
member is Kathryn McLeland, Head of Investor Relations.

Group Executive Committee
 Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and 
Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance Director, who are members 
of the Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by 
Jes Staley, can be found on pages 51 and 52. 

Who we are
Group Executive Committee

Board diversity
The Board has a balanced and diverse range of skills and experience. 
All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the diversity 
of skills, experience, background and gender required to be effective.

Balance of non-executive Directors: executive Directors

1
2

3

1 Chairman 1 
2 Executive Directors 2 
3 Non-executive Directors 10

 
Gender balance

Male: Female 9:4
 
Length of tenure 
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)

0-3 years 6 
3-6 years 3 
6-9 years 2 
 
Geographical mix 
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)

UK 6 
US 3 
Continental Europe 1 
Other 1  
 
Industry/background experience 
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)a

Financial Services 10 (91%)
Political/regulatory contacts 11 (100%)
Current/recent Chair/CEO 3 (27%)
Accountancy/financial 1 (9%)
International (US) 3 (27%)
International (Europe) 1 (9%)
International (Rest of the World) 3 (27%)
Operations and Technology 1 (9%)

Note
a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
54 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

 Strong and effective governance… 
benefits companies and the UK economy 
more generally, by instilling public confidence 
and respect for the corporate sector, making 
the UK an attractive place to do business. 

Dear Fellow Shareholders
Welcome to my 2016 corporate governance report. When I think about 
corporate governance, I inevitably focus on how strong and effective 
governance acts to provide the necessary checks and balances at the 
very top of companies, thus supporting better decision-making and 
accountability. In turn, this benefits companies and the UK economy 
more generally, by instilling public confidence and respect for the 
corporate sector and making the UK an attractive place to do business, 
something that has grown in importance post the EU Referendum. As 
a bank, gaining this confidence and respect is paramount. Our business 
is founded on and operates on trust – the trust of our customers and 
clients, our employees and the wider public. Strong and effective 
corporate governance has a vital role in ensuring that we earn and 
keep that trust. 

What is the role of the Board?
I firmly believe that the role of the Board is to focus on long-term, 
sustainable value creation. At the heart of our strategy, which we 
announced in March 2016, is building on our strength as a transatlantic 
consumer, corporate and investment bank, with global reach. To this 
end, the Board has provided critical oversight of executive management 
in developing and delivering this strategy, creating a smaller, simplified 
bank capable of producing high quality returns for our shareholders on 
a sustainable basis.

What were the Board's key areas of focus in 2016? 
During 2016, the Board focused its activity to support management 
in delivery of the agreed strategy. A summary of key items considered 
by the Board can be found on pages 56 to 57. The main areas of Board 
activity have been on ensuring that we have strong foundations in 
place by focusing on the performance of our Core businesses, and on 
completing the restructuring of Barclays by accelerating the run-down 
of the Non-Core businesses. We also took the difficult, but important, 
decision to sell-down our holding in Barclays Africa. Progress in these 
areas is enabling us to build the Barclays of the future. As part of 
ensuring we are well-positioned, and to meet regulatory requirements, 
we have aligned our business more closely with our legal entity structure 
and geographic locations. You can read more about the Board's role in 
preparing Barclays for Structural Reform in the case study on page 57. 
We also had to deal with the impacts of the UK's vote to leave the EU 
and held a special meeting in the days following the EU Referendum 
result to assess the position for Barclays. You can read more about how 
we prepared for the EU Referendum in the case study on page 72. 

How effective is the Board?
Effective delivery of long-term, sustainable value for shareholders 
requires an effective Board. It is an important part of my role as 
Chairman to satisfy myself that the Board – both collectively and its 
individual members – operates effectively. Each year, we conduct a 
self-assessment of our performance, with the aid of an independent 
facilitator, and you can read a report on the outcomes of the 2016 
self-assessment on pages 81 to 83. We also describe the actions we 
took during 2016 in response to any matters identified for improvement 
during the 2015 self-assessment. I hope this provides a flavour of how 
seriously the Board regards this important exercise. 

The working relationship between the Board and executive management 
is, of course, critical to the effectiveness of the Board and I am pleased 
to report that we enjoy a healthy, constructive relationship, with an 
appropriate level of creative tension that helps drive productive 
discussions in the boardroom. 

What we did in 2016
Chairman's introduction 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 55

How did the Board change in 2016?
To be effective, the Board needs the right people and, in particular, 
it needs to have the right balance and diversity of skills, experience and 
perspectives. It is important that the composition of the Board brings to 
bear a broad range of social perspectives and talent on decision-making 
and that the Board is able to connect with the demographics of Barclays' 
customers and clients and employees. We have a healthy non-executive 
presence on the Board, which was strengthened further during 2016 
with the appointments of Sir Gerry Grimstone as Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director and Mary Francis as a non-executive 
Director. Both are highly-experienced non-executive Directors and add 
to the depth of experience and talent on the Board. During 2016, Wendy 
Lucas-Bull and Frits van Paasschen, both non-executive Directors, left 
the Board and I thank them on behalf of the Board for their service.

In early 2016, we set ourselves a new Board diversity target, which is to 
have 33% women on the Board by 2020. We currently have 31% women 
on the Board and are pleased with the progress we are making towards 
our target. Of course, diversity is not just about gender and although we 
have not set any other Board diversity targets, such as ethnicity, when it 
discusses and assesses Board composition and prospective candidates 
the Board Nominations Committee considers a number of factors before 
making its recommendations. Ultimately, maintaining the overall 
effectiveness of the Board is paramount and we maintain the position 
that all appointments to the Board are made on merit. More information 
on the Board appointments process can be found on page 80.

How does the Board ensure that high standards of business conduct 
are maintained? 
There can be no argument that to be successful and to create long-term, 
sustainable value, we must maintain consumer and market trust and 
confidence. We need to act with transparency and integrity in every 
interaction we have with all of our stakeholders and this behaviour is 
integral to the way in which we operate. This is why as a Board we have 
continued to wholeheartedly support Barclays' shared purpose and 
common values. The Barclays Way, which is endorsed by me, as 
Chairman, outlines the purpose and values that govern our way of 
working across our businesses globally. Of course, the challenge we 
have, in a large organisation such as Barclays, is to ensure that all 
employees do the right thing day in, day out. To address this challenge, 
all employees continue to be required to undertake training on The 
Barclays Way annually, with the Board Reputation Committee tracking 
completion rates. Additionally, the Board Reputation Committee hears 
directly from the senior management in each business on how they are 
addressing any conduct and cultural matters specific to that business, 
thus holding senior management to account for the values and 
behaviours in their business. You can read more about the work of the 
Board Reputation Committee on pages 73 to 76. 

How does the Board take account of Barclays' wider stakeholders?
I've referred a number of times to the Board's role in creating and 
delivering shareholder value in a long-term, sustainable way. This can 
only be achieved by being acutely alive to the impact that our business 
decisions might have on our customers, clients, employees and others 
and by fully understanding and appreciating the wider societal 
obligations that we have. These issues are important for the Board and 
the Board Reputation Committee fulfils a vital role on behalf of the Board 
by monitoring key indicators across the areas of conduct, culture, 
citizenship and customer complaints. This includes, for example, 
assessing not only the volumes of customer complaints that we receive, 
but also the way in which they are handled. It covers assessing the 
results from regular employee opinion surveys and the actions being 
taken to address any common issues or themes that arise across the 
business. It also includes oversight of the delivery of our citizenship 
strategy, the Shared Growth Ambition, where our long-term aim is to 
create and grow a collection of products, services and partnerships that 
improve the lives of people in the communities that we serve. All of this 
activity can and does support the Board's over-arching objective of 
delivering sustainable returns for our shareholders. 

You can read more about the Shared Growth Ambition at 
home.barclays/citizenship 

Looking ahead
I expect 2017 to be a pivotal year for Barclays in the delivery of its 
strategy; a year when we will complete our restructuring and establish 
ourselves as a bank that is recognised for financial strength, financial 
transparency, operational stability, underpinned by a values-driven 
culture. We are incredibly focused and working hard as your Board to 
engender respect and trust for our Company and the profession of 
banking, in order to support our customers and clients, to contribute to 
the UK's reputation as a place to do business and to deliver long-term 
value to shareholders.

John McFarlane
Chairman
22 February 2017

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
56 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

During 2016, the Board focused on a number of specific areas,  
outlined in the table below, in line with Barclays three strategic goals  
and five principal risks:

Strategic goals
F  Have strong foundations in place 
A  Accelerate the completion of restructuring
B  Build the Barclays of the future

Principal risks 
C  Credit
M Market
F  Funding
O  Operational
C  Conduct

Board allocation of time (%)
2016 2015

1

2

3

4 1 Strategy formulation and  
implementation monitoring

55 56

2 Finance (incl. capital and liquidity) 17 11
3 Governance and Risk (incl. regulatory issues) 26 29
4 Other (incl. compensation) 2 4

Strategic Goal Principal Risks

Strategy formulation and monitoring
■■ Debated the potential impact of the EU Referendum and the contingency plans being developed. Following the 

result of the Referendum, discussed and assessed the implications for the UK, the banking sector and for 
Barclays, including a presentation from a third party on the political aspects and their potential implications

F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Regularly debated and monitored the progress of Barclays preparations for Structural Reform –  
see the case study on page 57 for further details

F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Reflected on the position of Barclays Africa in the Barclays Group and its impact on Barclays' capital position, 
deciding to sell-down Barclays' holding to a position where Barclays Africa accounting and regulatory  
de-consolidation could be achieved

F  A  B  F  O  C

■■ Assessed the progress of strategy execution in each of Barclays UK, Barclays International's investment bank 
and corporate business and the Cards business, via presentations from the heads of each business

F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Monitored the progress of the run-down of Barclays Non-Core via regular presentations from the heads of the 
Non-Core business

A C  M F  O  C

■■ Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against the Group's execution 
priorities and received insights on stakeholder issues (including those arising from customers and clients, employees, 
regulators and governments) and cultural matters, including results from employee opinion surveys

F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Debated and provided input to management on the formulation of overall Group strategy, including F  A  B C  M F  O  C
 – the impact of structural change and the creation of new subsidiary legal entities in the Group 
 – the progress of the sell-down of Barclays Africa, including potential options, costs of separation, potential 
conduct risks and customer impacts

 – the impact of the EU Referendum result, taking into account an assessment of possible political scenarios and 
the potential impacts on each of Barclays businesses in terms of capital, operations, economics, regulation, 
clients and customers

 – a strategic approach to costs optimisation
 – constraints and risks to strategy execution, covering economic assumptions; expected regulatory 
requirements on capital and solvency ratios at Group and subsidiary legal entity level; anticipated changes 
to accounting rules; investor expectations; and potential impacts for clients and customers

 – potential growth opportunities, covering an assessment of the competitive landscape for Barclays UK, Barclays 
International and the Cards business; key trends and risks for each business in terms of economics, regulation, 
customers, employees and technology; near-term focus areas and potential transformational opportunities

Finance, including capital and liquidity
■■ Debated and approved the Group's Medium Term Plan for 2016-2018 and short-term plan for 2016,  

with a focus on producing increased returns in future
F  A  B C  M F  

■■ Regularly assessed financial performance of the Group and its main businesses via reports from the 
Group Finance Director

F  A  B C  M F  

■■ Reviewed and approved Barclays' financial results prior to publication, including approving final and interim dividends F  A  B C  M F  
■■ Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays' strategic and financial results announcements,  

with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations
F  A  B C  M F  

■■ Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the high-level shape of Barclays' 2017-2019 
Medium Term Plan and subsequently approved the final plan

F  A  B C  M F  

What we did in 2016

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 57

Strategic Goal Principal Risks

Governance and risk, including regulatory issues
■■ Debated and approved 2016 risk appetite for the Barclays Group F  A  B C  M F  O  C
■■ Regularly assessed Barclays overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from the  

Chief Risk Officer and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee
F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Evaluated Barclays operational and technology capability, including specific updates on cyber-risk  
capability and the strategy for infrastructure services. Approved Barclays International's investment bank's IT  
and Data Global Strategy

F  A  B O

■■ Approved the Group's 2016 Recovery Plan and US Resolution Plan F  A  B C  M F  O  C
■■ Held specific meetings with representatives of Barclays' UK and US regulators to hear first-hand about regulatory 

expectations and their specific views on Barclays 
F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Evaluated the status of Barclays' risk and control environment and the plans in place to enhance the risk 
and control framework and approved a revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)

F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal risks facing Barclays F  A  B  O  C
■■ Heard regularly from the chairmen of the Board's principal Board Committees on the matters discussed at 

Board Committee meetings
F  A  B C  M F  O  C

■■ Received updates from the chairman of Barclays US IHC on matters discussed at its board meetings F  A  B C  M F  O  C
■■ Heard directly from representatives of the Banking Standards Board on its assessment of the culture in Barclays 

and the banking sector as a whole
F  A  B C

Other, including compensation
■■ Reviewed Barclays' Talent Management strategy and the process for succession planning for key executive 

positions, hearing directly from the Group HR Director and the Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee 
F  A  B  O  C

■■ Received and debated a presentation from the independent facilitator of the 2016 Board effectiveness review 
on the outcomes and potential areas of focus for improvement

F  A  B  O  C

The above analysis reflects the ERMF that was in place during 2016.

Governance in Action –  
Preparing for Structural Reform 
Law and regulation in the UK, and associated regulatory rules, 
require Barclays to separate its retail banking operations into a separate, 
independent legal entity (known as ‘ring-fencing'). Barclays has an 
internal Structural Reform Programme in place to implement these 
required changes in the UK. A new UK banking entity is being 
established as the ring-fenced bank (Barclays UK) and will serve retail 
and small business customers, as well as UK wealth and credit card 
customers. Barclays International will continue to serve corporate, 
institutional and investment banking clients and will also serve 
international wealth and credit card customers. A Group Service Company 
will be established to support the revised operating entity structure.

These structural changes will have a material impact on the way in 
which Barclays operates in future. Consequently, the progress of the 
Structural Reform Programme featured heavily on the Board's agenda 
during 2016, given the scale of change required and the potential 
material risks associated with transitioning to the new structure and 
with the new structure itself. The Board evaluated progress of the 
Structural Reform Programme at seven of the eight Board meetings 
held during 2016, including specifically evaluating the impact of 
structural change as part of the annual Group strategy Board meeting. 
Specific matters addressed by the Board included:
■■ Structural Reform design and implementation plans, including 

evaluating any identified risks and challenges; considering regulatory 
feedback on the plans and the status of actions arising from regulatory 
engagement; and agreeing the internal accountability framework

■■ assessing the progress being made with establishing the new legal 
entity for Barclays UK, including any necessary regulatory licencing 
requirements and preparations for the ring-fence transfer scheme

■■ monitoring the creation of the Group Service Company, including 
assessing its design, its board governance structure, its control and 
oversight framework and the execution milestones to be achieved

■■ debating the potential implications of Structural Reform on Barclays' 
pension scheme, both in terms of the potential impact on Barclays 
and on pension scheme members 

■■ conducting an assessment of the overall conduct risk considerations 
associated with Structural Reform, focusing on the potential impacts 
for clients and customers

■■ evaluating the work being conducted to address sort-code 
migration, covering technology planning and implementation 
and customer impact considerations.

Separately, during 2016, Barclays' US businesses were organised under 
an Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) in order to meet US legal 
requirements. The IHC became operational from 1 July 2016. The Board 
was regularly updated on progress of implementation, any risks and 
challenges and how they were being managed.

Board Committees have supported the Board in overseeing the 
implementation of Structural Reform on matters that fall directly within 
their remit. For example, the Board Nominations Committee 
determined the proposed composition of the boards of the new 
operating entities and is in the process of identifying and evaluating 
proposed candidates for appointment to those boards. It also 
discussed and endorsed a set of Governance Guiding Principles, which 
will govern the relationship between the parent company and its new 
operating entities. The Board Risk Committee spends time at each 
meeting assessing the prospective capital and liquidity impacts of 
Structural Reform, while the Board Audit Committee has evaluated the 
potential accounting implications. More information can be found in the 
individual Board Committee reports on the pages that follow.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
58 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

 Change has continued apace and it has 
been critical to focus on ensuring that the 
commitment to strengthening the control 
environment is maintained throughout this 
transformational period.  

Dear Fellow Shareholders
My report to you last year highlighted the significant degree of change 
that Barclays was facing, driven by its own strategic aims and by the 
demands of Structural Reform. Change has continued apace and it has 
been critical for the Committee to focus on ensuring the commitment to 
strengthening the control environment is maintained throughout this 
transformational period. Barclays has during 2016 put in place a 
significantly changed senior management team and my Committee 
colleagues and I are greatly encouraged by the renewed focus and 
vigour with which the control environment is being addressed and the 
sense of personal accountability that we are seeing. A significant 
development in the fourth quarter of 2016 was the creation of a chief 
controls office and the appointment of a Chief Controls Officer, which 
will drive forward the delivery of an enhanced programme designed to 
strengthen the control environment and remediate any known issues. 
Although the new controls office structure is in its infancy, I welcome  
the more strategic approach that is now being taken to embed 
accountability for a strong control environment into the first line of 
management. Such is the importance of this programme to Barclays 
that, for its initial phase, progress on the framework will be reported 
directly to the full Board. In assessing control issues for disclosure in the 
Annual Report, the Committee has continued to apply similar definitions 
to those used for assessing internal financial controls for the purposes  
of Sarbanes-Oxley. The conclusion we have reached is that there are no 
control issues that are considered to be a material weakness, which 
merit specific disclosure. Further details may be found in the Risk 
management and internal control section on page 88.

Our busy agenda in 2016 continued to include our responsibilities for 
overseeing the performance and effectiveness of internal and external 
audit, the main independent assurance mechanisms that serve to 
protect shareholders' interests. The Committee also continued to 
exercise its responsibilities for ensuring the integrity of Barclays' 
published financial information by debating and challenging the 
judgements made by management and the assumptions and estimates 
on which they are based. The exercise of appropriate judgement in 
preparing the financial statements is critical in ensuring that Barclays 
reports to its shareholders in a fair, balanced and transparent way. The 
report that follows sets out details of the material matters considered  
by the Committee since my last report. 

A significant change that the Committee has been overseeing is the 
transition to KPMG as Barclays' statutory auditor, following the audit 
tender concluded in 2015. I met regularly with the PwC lead audit 
partner and his KPMG successor during 2016. KPMG has been 
shadowing the current auditor, PwC, during the 2016 year-end audit and 
the Committee is already seeing some value from the new perspective 
provided by KPMG on accounting estimates and policies. You can read 
more about auditor transition in the case study on page 67. 

The introduction in March 2016 of the UK's Senior Managers Regime 
allocated to me specific prescribed responsibilities for safeguarding the 
independence of, and overseeing the performance of, the internal audit 
function, including the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor, in line 
with regulatory requirements. In practice, little has changed in the way in 
which I fulfil my responsibilities: I continue to hold regular meetings with 
the Chief Internal Auditor and members of her senior management team 
to ensure I am aware of current work programmes and any emerging issues 
and I also agree the Chief Internal Auditor's objectives and the outcomes 
of her performance assessment. During 2016, the PRA undertook a 
review of Barclays Internal Audit (BIA) and made a number of 
recommendations to increase its effectiveness and the Committee's 
monitoring thereof. An action plan has been developed to address these 
recommendations. The Committee also held a networking event with 
BIA during 2016, enabling Committee members to meet less formally 
with senior members of the BIA team. 

What we did in 2016
Board Audit Committee report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 59

An additional responsibility I have assumed under the Senior Managers 
Regime is that of Whistleblower's Champion, a position required by the 
FCA to be held at Board level. As champion, I have specific responsibility 
for the integrity, independence and effectiveness of the Barclays' policies 
and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for 
protecting employees who raise concerns from detrimental treatment. 
During 2016, I recorded a video message to all employees Group-wide, 
highlighting my role as Whistleblower's Champion and raising awareness 
of the policies and procedures we have in place.

I continued to work closely with my fellow Board Committee chairmen 
during 2016, particularly with the Board Risk Committee chairman on 
the question of operational risk issues, which each Committee has a role 
in overseeing. I attended meetings of the IHC audit committee to gain a 
first-hand insight into the issues being addressed by that committee and 
have invited its chairman to attend a Committee meeting in early 2017 
by way of reciprocating. I met frequently with other members of senior 
management, including the Group Finance Director, and continued my 
engagement with Barclays' regulators both in the UK and US. 

Committee performance
The Committee's performance during 2016 was assessed as part of 
the independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review. The 
conclusion of my Board colleagues was that the Committee is regarded 
as thorough and the Board takes assurance from the quality of the 
Committee's work. The main area identified for improvement was to 
ensure that the Committee continues to strike an appropriate balance 
between covering issues in appropriate detail and taking a strategic 
approach to its oversight and supervision of management. The review 
also commented on the need to strengthen the depth of financial and 
accounting expertise on the Committee via new appointments, which 
is a matter that was already under consideration during 2016, and the 
need to ensure that the way in which the Committee works with the 
Board Reputation and Board Risk Committees continues to capture all 
significant issues effectively while minimising any overlap. I will be 
seeking to address each of these areas over the coming year. You can 
read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness review on 
pages 81 to 83.

Looking ahead
The Committee is looking forward to working with both the new  
Chief Controls Officer and with the new auditor, KPMG, during 2017. In 
addition to overseeing management's progress on enhancing the control 
environment, the Committee will be focusing on some significant accounting 
issues, including the Group's preparedness for the implementation of 
IFRS9 and the accounting implications of Structural Reform. We will also 
be closely monitoring the implementation of the action plan to address 
the recommendations arising from the PRA's review of BIA.

Mike Ashley
Chairman, Board Audit Committee
22 February 2017

Board Audit Committee allocation of time (%)
2016 2015

1

2

3

4

5

6 1 Control issues 23 18
2 Business control environment 19 16
3 Financial results 36 27
4 Internal audit matters 11 7
5 External audit matters  

(including, in 2015, external audit tender)
6 26

6 Other (including governance and 
compliance)

4 6

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive 
Directors, with membership designed to provide the breadth of financial 
expertise and commercial acumen its needs to fulfil its responsibilities. 
Its members as a whole have experience of the banking and financial 
services sector in addition to general management and commercial 
experience. Diane Schueneman was appointed to the Committee with 
effect from 18 February 2016, bringing valuable insights into operational 
and technology risk and controls. Diane de Saint Victor retired from the 
Committee at the end of May 2016. Mike Ashley is the designated 
financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-
Oxley Act. Although each member of the Committee has financial and/
or financial services experience, the Board has identified that the 
Committee could be strengthened by the appointment of an additional 
member with direct accounting and auditing experience. Consideration 
is being given to further appointments to the Committee in this regard, 
however, given the impact of Structural Reform, the search for suitable 
candidates is being addressed in the context of overall Board 
composition requirements. You can find more details of the experience 
of Committee members in their biographies on pages 51 and 52.

The Committee met 12 times in 2016 and the chart above shows how it 
allocated its time. Meetings are generally arranged well in advance and 
are usually scheduled in line with Barclays' financial reporting timetable. 
Two of the meetings were arranged specifically to provide the 
Committee opportunity to consider particular issues relevant to the 
financial statements, such as the viability statement and the proposed 
deadline for PPI claims. Committee meetings were attended by 
management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, 
General Counsel and Head of Compliance, as well as representatives 
from the businesses and other functions. In future, the Chief Controls 
Officer will attend meetings on a regular basis. The lead audit partner 
of the external auditor attended all Committee meetings and the 
Committee held a number of private sessions with each of the Chief 
Internal Auditor or the lead auditor partner, which were not attended by 
management. From 1 July 2016, the lead audit partner of KPMG also 
attended meetings as part of the statutory auditor transition process. 
Representatives from the PRA also attended a meeting during 2016.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Mike Ashley 12/12
Tim Breedon 12/12
Crawford Gillies* 11/12
Diane de Saint Victor (to 31 May 2016) 8/8
Diane Schueneman (from 18 February 2016) 9/9

*Did not attend one meeting convened at short notice owing to a prior commitment

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ assessing the integrity of the Group's financial reporting and satisfying 

itself that any significant financial judgements made by management 
are sound

■■ evaluating the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls, including 
internal financial controls

■■ scrutinising the activities and performance of the internal and external 
auditors, including monitoring their independence and objectivity.

The Committee's terms of reference are available at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
60 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 and 
in evaluating Barclays' 2016 annual report and financial statements, are 
described on the following pages.

Financial statement reporting issues
The Committee's main responsibility in relation to Barclays' financial 
reporting is to review with both management and the external auditor 
the appropriateness of Barclays' financial statements, including quarterly 
results announcements and half-year and annual financial statements 
and supporting analyst presentations, with its primary focus being on: 
■■ the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices
■■ any correspondence from financial reporting regulators in relation 

to Barclays' financial reporting
■■ material areas where significant judgements have been made, along 

with any significant assumptions or estimates, or where significant 
issues have been discussed with or challenged by the external auditor

■■ an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess Barclays' position and performance, 
business model and strategy. 

Accounting policies and practices
The Committee discussed reports from management in relation to 
the identification of critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty, significant accounting policies and the proposed 
disclosure of these in the 2016 Annual Report. Following discussions 
with both management and the external auditor, the Committee 
approved the critical accounting judgements, significant accounting 
policies and disclosures, which are set out in note 1, ‘Significant 
accounting policies', to the consolidated financial statements.  
There were no significant changes in accounting policy during the 
period. During 2016, the Committee was regularly updated on Barclays' 
preparations for the implementation of IFRS9 (Financial Instruments), 
which is effective from 1 January 2018, including the key technical 
decisions and interpretations required and Barclays' proposed approach 

for each. The Committee also considered the accounting implications  
of Structural Reform and the establishment of the ring-fenced bank. 
These will continue to be areas of focus in 2017.

Financial reporting regulators and Barclays 
During the third quarter of 2016, Barclays received a comment letter 
from the Corporate Reporting Review Team (CRRT) of the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) in relation to its thematic review of tax 
disclosures. The comment letter covered the disclosure of uncertain tax 
provisions in Barclays' 2015 annual report and financial statements. The 
CRRT requested and was provided with additional information in respect 
of Barclays' disclosure of uncertain tax positions, including an advance 
copy of Barclays enhanced policy for such disclosure (see page 294), 
and subsequently confirmed in writing that it had closed its enquiries.*

The Committee from time to time considers comment letters from the 
SEC in relation to its reviews of Barclays' Annual Report and other 
publicly filed financial statements. Such comment letters and Barclays' 
responses are made publicly available by the SEC on its website, 
www.sec.gov, once it has closed each such review. The Committee 
sought to ensure that Barclays took due account of the SEC's views in  
its external reporting.

Significant judgements and issues
The significant judgements and issues and actions taken by the 
Committee in relation to the 2016 annual report and financial 
statements are outlined below. The significant judgements and issues 
are broadly comparable in nature to prior years. Each of these matters 
was discussed with the external auditor during the year and, where 
appropriate, have been addressed as areas of audit focus in the Auditors' 
Report on pages 269 to 275.

* The CRRT's review was based on Barclays' annual report and financial statements and 
did not benefit from detailed knowledge of Barclays' business or the transactions 
entered into. The closure of the CRRT's enquiries provides no assurance that Barclays' 
annual report and accounts are correct in all material respects, as the FRC's role is not  
to verify information but to ensure compliance with reporting requirements. The FRC 
accepts no liability for reliance on its closure letter from Barclays or any third party, 
including but not limited to investors and shareholders. 

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Conduct provisions
(see Note 27 to the 
financial statements).

Barclays makes certain 
assumptions and estimates, 
analysis of which underpins 
provisions made for the costs of 
customer redress, such as for 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).

■■ Regularly analysed the judgements and 
estimates made with regard to Barclays' 
provisioning for PPI claims, taking into 
account forecasts and assumptions made 
for PPI complaints and actual claims 
experience for Barclays and the industry 
as a whole.

■■ Debated the potential impact on the 
future range of provisions arising from 
the FCA's proposed timebar on claims 
and the expected deadline of June 2019, 
discussing the levels of uncertainty  
in the projections. 

■■ Discussed the potential range of 
outcomes that might arise from the 
Plevin case (the 2014 UK Supreme Court 
ruling in Plevin v Paragon Personal 
Finance Ltd) and whether any increase 
in provisions was required.

■■ Evaluated proposed additional provisions 
for PPI and whether the analysis 
performed by management was 
consistent with prior periods and reflected 
known trend data and whether Barclays' 
approach was consistent with that taken 
by industry peers.

■■ Assessed provisions for alternative PPI 
(card protection and payment break plan 
insurance) and the claims experience 
compared to the range of reasonable 
high and low end scenarios that had 
been determined.

The Committee and management 
continue to monitor closely any 
changes in customer or claims 
management companies' behaviour in 
light of the Plevin case and the 
proposed FCA timebar. Over the course 
of 2016, having assessed actual claims 
experience and the potential impact of 
the proposed timebar and the Plevin 
case, the Committee agreed to 
recognise additional provisions of 
£1,000m in 2016, bringing Barclays' 
total cumulative provisions against the 
cost of PPI redress and associated 
processing costs to £8.4bn, of which 
£2.0bn is remaining.

What we did in 2016
Board Audit Committee report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 61

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Legal, competition 
and regulatory 
provisions
(see Notes 27-29 
to the financial 
statements).

Barclays is engaged in various 
legal, competition and regulatory 
matters. The extent of the impact 
on Barclays of these matters 
cannot always be predicted, but 
matters can give rise to 
provisioning for contingent and 
other liabilities depending on the 
relevant facts and circumstances. 
The level of provisioning is subject 
to management judgement on 
the basis of legal advice and is 
therefore an area of focus for 
the Committee.

■■ Evaluated advice on the status of current 
legal, competition and regulatory matters.

■■ Assessed management's judgements 
and estimates of the levels of provisions 
to be taken and the adequacy of those 
provisions, based on available information 
and evidence.

■■ Considered the adequacy of disclosure, 
recognising that any decision to set 
provisions involves significant judgement.

The Committee discussed provisions 
and utilisation. Having reviewed the 
information available to determine what 
was both probable and could be reliably 
estimated, the Committee agreed that 
no additional provision should be made 
at the full year for ongoing 
investigations and litigation.  

Further information may be found 
on pages 330 to 338.

Valuations
(see Notes 14-18 
to the financial 
statements).

Barclays exercises judgement in 
the valuation and disclosure of 
financial instruments, derivative 
assets and certain portfolios, 
particularly where quoted market 
prices are not available, including 
the Group's Education, Social 
Housing and Local Authority 
(ESHLA) portfolio.

■■ Evaluated reports from Barclays' 
Valuations Committee, with particular 
focus on the restructuring of the ESHLA 
portfolio and its subsequent de-
recognition; a valuation disparity with 
a third party in respect of a specific 
long-dated derivative portfolio; and an 
assessment of the impact of negative 
interest rates on the valuation of 
derivatives.

■■ Considered proposals from the Valuations 
Committee to revise the valuations 
approach for the remaining ESHLA 
portfolio and to revise the approach 
to the marking of Own Credit.

The Committee confirmed its 
agreement to the restructuring and 
de-recognition of the ESHLA portfolio 
and concluded that it was a de-
recognition event. It noted the lack 
of progress made in resolving the 
third-party valuation disparity, which 
has been outstanding for some time, 
and satisfied itself on the basis of the 
information available to it that Barclays' 
valuation methodology remains 
appropriate. It approved a revision 
to the model used for valuing the 
remaining ESHLA portfolio 
recommended by the Valuations 
Committee.

Impairment
(see Note 7 to the 
financial statements).

Where appropriate, Barclays 
models potential impairment 
performance, allowing for certain 
assumptions and sensitivities, 
to agree allowances for credit 
impairment, including agreeing 
the timing of the recognition of 
any impairment and estimating 
the size, particularly where 
forbearance has been granted.

■■ Assessed impairment experience against 
forecast and whether impairment 
provisions were appropriate.

■■ Evaluated the appropriateness and timing 
of the impairment taken in connection 
with Barclays' exposures to the oil and 
gas sectors, including the impact of single 
name losses in the oil and commodities 
sectors.

■■ Debated the adjustment in impairment 
taken in the Cards business for informal 
forbearance arrangements and the 
potential impact of changes in emergence 
modelling.

■■ Considered a report from the Group 
Impairment Committee on the adequacy 
of loan impairment allowances as at 
31 December 2016, including assessing 
internal and external trends, methodologies 
and key management judgements.

The Committee challenged the timing 
of the oil and gas impairment taken in 
the half-year results, although 
confirmed that the provision was 
adequate. It welcomed the proposal 
to create a new Group Impairment 
Committee and enhance the role of the 
Group Finance function in assessing 
impairment provisioning. It agreed a 
post-model adjustment of £250m for 
impairment in the UK and US Cards 
businesses during the third quarter of 
2016 and obtained clarification on the 
impairment policy for the Cards 
business. At the full year, having 
debated the report from the Group 
Impairment Committee it confirmed the 
adequacy of the full year impairment 
charge of £2.4bn.

Tax
(see Note 10 to the 
financial statements).

Barclays is subject to taxation in a 
number of jurisdictions globally 
and makes judgements with 
regard to provisioning for tax 
at risk and on the recognition 
and measurement of deferred 
tax assets.

■■ Evaluated the appropriateness of tax risk 
provisions to cover existing tax risk.

■■ Debated the forecasts and assumptions 
supporting the recognition and valuation 
of deferred tax assets.

The Committee confirmed the tax risk 
provisions for the full year and the 
treatment of deferred tax assets.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
62 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Long-term viability
(see page 41 for 
further information).

The Directors are required to make 
a statement in the Annual Report 
as to the long-term viability of 
Barclays. The Committee provides 
advice to the Board on the form and 
content of the statement, including 
the underlying assumptions. 

■■ Evaluated at year end a report from 
management setting out the view of 
Barclays' long-term viability. This report 
was based on Barclays Medium Term Plan 
(MTP) and covered forecasts for capital, 
liquidity and leverage, including forecast 
performance against regulatory targets, 
outcomes of the stress test of the MTP 
and forecast capital and liquidity 
performance against stress hurdle rates, 
funding and liquidity forecasts and an 
assessment of global risk themes and the 
Group's risk profile.

■■ Considered the viability statement in 
conjunction with Barclays risk statements 
and strategy/business model disclosures.

■■ Addressed specific feedback from 
investors and other stakeholders on 
viability statements in general.

Taking into account the assessment  
by the Board Risk Committee of stress 
testing results and risk appetite, the 
Committee agreed to recommend 
the viability statement to the Board 
for approval.

Fair, balanced and 
understandable 
reporting 
(including country-by-
country reporting and 
Pillar 3 reporting).

Barclays is required to ensure 
that its external reporting is fair, 
balanced and understandable. 
The Committee undertakes an 
assessment on behalf of the 
Board in order to provide the 
Board with assurance that it can 
make the statement required by 
the Code.

■■ Assessed, via discussion with and 
challenge of management, including the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director, whether disclosures in Barclays' 
published financial statements were fair, 
balanced and understandable.

■■ Evaluated reports from Barclays' 
Disclosure Committee on its assessment 
of the content, accuracy and tone of the 
disclosures.

■■ Established via reports from management 
that there were no indications of fraud 
relating to financial reporting matters.

■■ Evaluated the outputs of Barclays' internal 
control assessments and Sarbanes-Oxley 
s404 internal control process.

■■ Assessed disclosure controls 
and procedures.

■■ Confirmed that management had 
reported on and evidenced the basis on 
which representations to the external 
auditors were made.

Having evaluated all of the available 
information and the assurances 
provided by management, the 
Committee concluded that the 
processes underlying the preparation 
of Barclays' published financial 
statements, including the 2016 annual 
report and financial statements, were 
appropriate in ensuring that those 
statements were fair, balanced and 
understandable. 

In assessing Barclays' financial results 
statements over the course of 2016, the 
Committee specifically addressed and 
provided input to management on the 
disclosure and presentation of:
■■ Barclays restated financial results, 

including the allocations to Barclays 
UK and Barclays International and the 
separation of the Cards business 

■■ the sell-down of Barclays holding in 
Barclays Africa and its classification 
as held for sale

■■ guidance provided to the market on 
the costs of Structural Reform

■■ the Group Finance Director's 
presentations to analysts

■■ alternative performance measures 
in view of new guidance from the 
European Securities & Markets 
Association

■■ core performance and headcount
■■ operational risk capital and guidance 

on capital levels
■■ the level of segmental reporting.

The Committee recommended to the 
Board that the 2016 annual report and 
financial statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable.

What we did in 2016
Board Audit Committee report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 63

Other significant matters
Apart from financial reporting matters the Committee has responsibility 
for oversight of the effectiveness of Barclays' internal controls, the 
performance and effectiveness of BIA and the performance, objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor. The most significant matters 
considered during 2016 are described below: 

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Internal control
Read more about the 
Barclays' internal 
control and risk 
management 
processes on pages 
88 and 89.

The effectiveness of the overall 
control environment, including 
the status of any material control 
issues and the progress of specific 
remediation plans.

■■ Evaluated and tracked the status of the 
most material control issues identified by 
management via regular reports from the 
Head of Operational Risk and latterly from 
the Chief Controls Officer.

■■ Evaluated the status of specific material 
control issues and associated remediation 
plans, including in particular those 
relating to Security of Secret and 
Confidential Data; Infrastructure Access 
Management; Group Resilience; IT 
Security; Data Governance; Model Risk 
Management; and Unsupported 
Infrastructure and Applications, all of 
which remained open at the end of 2016.

■■ Discussed lessons learned from specific 
control incidents and how these could be 
applied to Barclays' business globally, via 
an enhanced lessons-learned process.

■■ Debated any regulatory reports or other 
feedback received from regulators on 
Barclays' overall control environment.

■■ Assessed the status of the enhancements 
being made to Barclays risk and control 
self-assessment (RCSA) process to support 
disclosures in Barclays annual report.

The Committee requested 
enhancements to reporting to make 
clear where operational risk was outside 
appetite and the actions being taken. 
The Committee welcomed the 
improvements made to the lessons-
learned process and proposed that the 
new Group Controls Committee should 
play a role in setting standards for 
lessons-learned exercises and deciding 
when they should be conducted. The 
Committee endorsed the work being 
taken forward, under the leadership of 
the Chief Controls Officer, to address 
any feedback from regulators on 
Barclays' control environment, noting 
that the Board would directly oversee 
the progress being made to address 
specific regulatory feedback. The 
Committee also challenged 
management to ensure that the RCSA 
process was sufficiently robust in light 
of some specific control issues that had 
emerged after certain RCSAs had been 
completed.

The effectiveness of the 
management control approach 
and control environment in each 
individual business, including the 
status of any material control 
issues and the progress of specific 
remediation plans.

■■ Assessed individual reports from Barclays 
UK, Barclays International, the Cards 
business, Barclays' Non-Core operations, 
Barclays International's US investment 
banking operations and Barclays Africa, 
including questioning directly the heads 
of those businesses on their 
management control approach/culture 
and control environment, including any 
specific control issues, resilience issues, 
the status and progress of any 
remediation plans or workstreams 
and plans to enhance the control 
environment.

■■ Tracked plans for implementing revised 
control governance structures in each 
business to align with changes in 
Barclays' organisational structure.

■■ Provided feedback on the 2016 control 
objectives for each member of the Group 
Executive Committee.

The Committee welcomed the decision 
by Barclaycard to redirect strategic 
investment towards enhancing its 
control environment and to restrict 
growth in new business while certain 
control issues, such as fraud levels in 
the US, were addressed. To make clear 
the levels of personal accountability 
expected, the Committee asked for the 
control objectives for each member of 
the Group Executive Committee for 
2016 to be made more specific, with an 
emphasis on prioritising control issues.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
64 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

The effectiveness of the control 
environment in the Chief 
Operating Office (COO) and the 
status and remediation of any 
material control issues.

■■ Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO 
control environment, taking the 
opportunity to directly challenge and 
question functional leaders, including the 
Chief Operating Officer on the progress of 
remediation plans.

■■ Debated the clarity of accountability and 
standards of consistency needed, given 
decentralisation of the business.

■■ Addressed the issue of resilience and 
associated risk appetite, discussing in 
particular the impact of change on 
resilience initiatives.

■■ Discussed the impact of the proposed 
sell-down of Barclays holding in Barclays 
Africa, including any ongoing support 
requirements on COO-related material 
control issues.

The Committee emphasised the need 
for clear ownership and accountability 
between the business and COO for 
technology control issues, which has 
been addressed via the implementation 
of the new organisational management 
structure. In view of the volume of 
technology and change remediation 
required, the Committee tasked the 
Chief Operating Officer with enhancing 
the processes for self-identification and 
logging of risk and control issues. The 
Committee also asked the new Chief 
Information Officer to conduct a deep 
dive into Technology control issues, the 
outputs of which were evaluated by the 
Committee in the fourth quarter of 
2016. The Committee welcomed the 
improved clarity of the plans to enhance 
the COO control environment and will 
receive further regular updates 
throughout 2017.

The adequacy of the Group's 
arrangements to allow employees 
to raise concerns in confidence 
without fear of retaliation and the 
outcomes of any substantiated cases.

■■ Evaluated the results of benchmarking 
exercise to compare Barclays' processes 
and case volumes to 40 peer companies.

■■ Tracked the progress of the internal 
campaign to raise awareness among 
employees on raising concerns.

■■ Monitored the trends in reported and 
substantiated whistleblowing cases, 
including any information on any 
instances of retaliation.

The Committee concluded that 
Barclays' processes were appropriate 
and in line with peers. It noted that the 
successful internal campaign had 
generated an increase in the number of 
whistleblowing reports, all of which 
were investigated. Volumes of cases 
remain proportionate to Barclays' size 
and footprint. The Committee asked 
management to provide additional 
detail in its future reports where any 
whistleblowing investigation was 
outstanding for more than six months. 
In future, as Barclays Whistleblowing 
Champion, the Chairman of the 
Committee will make an annual report 
to the Board on whistleblowing matters.

What we did in 2016
Board Audit Committee report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 65

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Internal audit The performance of BIA and 
delivery of the internal audit plan, 
including scope of work 
performed, the level of resources 
and the methodology and 
coverage of the internal audit plan.

■■ Scrutinised and agreed internal audit 
plans and deliverables for 2016, including 
agreeing the areas of focus, such as 
technology, data, change, execution risk, 
and the resources required.

■■ Monitored delivery of the agreed audit 
plans, including assessing internal audit 
resources and attrition levels and any 
impacts on the plan.

■■ Debated audit risk appetite and issue 
validation. 

■■ Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory 
audits, including discussing the time 
taken to issue audit reports and the 
reasons for any delays.

■■ Discussed BIA's assessment of the 
management control approach and 
control environment in Barclays UK, 
Barclays International and the COO.

■■ Debated with BIA the possibility of 
auditing culture.

■■ Evaluated the outcomes from BIA's annual 
self-assessment.

■■ Debated feedback received from the PRA 
on the performance of BIA and discussed 
the increased regulatory expectations of 
BIA and the impact on internal audit plans 
and resources.

The Committee approved an increase in 
headcount to ensure appropriate audit 
coverage of technology and change and 
agreed an interim audit risk appetite 
level pending recruitment, subject to 
the delivery of mitigating actions 
assigned to the Chief Operating Officer. 
The Committee emphasised to 
management that it was not content 
with the number of unsatisfactory 
audits and considered setting a target 
for management. It also asked BIA to 
disclose in its reports the reasons for 
any delay in issuing audit reports, along 
with details of any audit work that was 
deferred or cancelled. In view of the 
additional expectations placed on BIA, 
the Committee requested details of 
internal audit vacancies, business areas 
and skills sets and encouraged the 
Chief Internal Auditor to consider 
internal transfers and other creative 
solutions to fill resourcing gaps. It 
agreed with BIA the action plan to 
address the recommendations arising 
from the PRA review of BIA's 
performance. The Committee 
confirmed that it was satisfied with the 
outcomes of the self-assessment of BIA 
performance, which evidenced that the 
function generally conforms to the 
standards set by the Institute of Internal 
Auditors. It further confirmed that it felt 
able to reply on the work of BIA in 
discharging its own responsibilities.

External audit The work and performance of 
PwC, including the maintenance 
of audit quality during the period 
of transition to a new auditor.

■■ Met with key members of the PwC audit 
team to discuss the 2016 audit plan and 
agree areas of focus.

■■ Assessed regular reports from PwC on 
the progress of the 2016 audit and any 
material issues identified, including 
debating with PwC whether any changes 
to the audit plan were needed following 
the UK's vote to leave the EU.

■■ Discussed PwC's report on certain control 
areas and the control environment, 
including a specific report on controls 
over access to payment systems 
requested by the Committee.

■■ Discussed the draft audit opinion ahead 
of 2016 year end.

The Committee approved the audit plan 
and the main areas of focus.

Read more about the Committee's 
role in assessing the performance, 
effectiveness and independence of 
the external auditor and the quality of 
the external audit on pages 66 to 67.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
66 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

The Committee also covered the following matters: 
■■ tracked the progress of specific work being done to enhance Barclays' 

financial crime controls and the deployment of a revised financial 
crime operating model. The Committee also assessed the Group 
Money Laundering Officer's annual report and was briefed on any 
issues arising from the publication of the information known as the 
‘Panama Papers' 

■■ assessed the status of the programme in place to ensure Barclays' 
compliance with client assets regulatory requirements, including 
approving the annual client assets audit report and discussing the 
potential impact of Structural Reform on client assets

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment of the Committee's 
performance and any areas of Committee performance that needed 
to be enhanced

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of reference, recommending them 
to the Board for approval.

External auditor
PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been Barclays' external auditor since 
1896. An external audit tender was conducted in 2015, with a view to 
rotating the external audit firm for the 2017 audit onwards. PwC was not 
asked to tender. The tender process completed in summer 2015 and the 
Board announced in July 2015 that it had appointed KPMG as Barclays' 
statutory auditor with effect from the 2017 financial year. Henry Daubeney 
of PwC has been Barclays' senior statutory auditor with effect from the 
audit for the 2015 financial year. He will be succeeded by an audit 
partner from KPMG with effect from the audit for the 2017 financial year. 

Assessing external auditor effectiveness, auditor objectivity and 
independence and non-audit services
The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness, objectivity 
and independence of the Group's auditor, PwC. This responsibility was 
discharged throughout the year at formal Committee meetings, during 
private meetings with PwC and via discussions with key executive 
stakeholders. In addition to the matters noted above, during 2016 the 
Committee: 
■■ approved the terms of the audit engagement letter and associated 

fees, on behalf of the Board
■■ discussed and agreed revisions to the Group Policy on the Provision 

of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor and regularly analysed 
reports from management on the non-audit services provided to 
Barclays. Read more about non-audit services below

■■ evaluated and approved revisions to the Group Policy on Employment 
of Employees or Workers from the Statutory Auditor and ensured 
compliance with the policy by regularly assessing reports from 
management detailing any appointments made 

■■ assessed the draft report to the PRA prepared by PwC regarding its 
detailed audit work on specific topics

■■ was briefed by PwC on critical accounting estimates, where significant 
judgement is needed

■■ assessed any potential threats to its independence self-identified and 
reported by PwC

■■ reviewed the report on PwC issued by the FRC's Audit Quality 
Review team.

PwC's performance, independence and objectivity during 2016 were 
formally assessed at the beginning of 2017 by way of a questionnaire 
completed by key stakeholders across the Group. The questionnaire 
was designed to evaluate PwC's audit process and addressed matters 
including the quality of planning and communication, technical 
knowledge, the level of scrutiny and challenge applied and PwC's 
understanding of the business. The Committee was particularly 
interested in assessing whether audit quality was being maintained 
throughout the period of transition to a new auditor and that the 
appropriate degree of challenge and scepticism was being maintained. 
The results of the evaluation confirmed that both PwC and the audit 
process were effective. In view of the external audit tender conducted in 
2015 and the decision to appoint KPMG as Barclays' external auditor 
with effect from the 2017 financial year, PwC will resign as the Group's 
statutory auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit and the Board will 
resolve to appoint KPMG to fill the vacancy. A resolution to appoint 
KPMG as auditor will be proposed at Barclays' 2017 AGM. PwC will be 
available at the 2017 AGM to answer any questions.

Non-audit services
In order to safeguard the auditor's independence and objectivity, 
Barclays has in place a policy setting out the circumstances in which the 
auditor may be engaged to provide services other than those covered by 
the Group audit. The Group Policy on the Provision of Services by the 
Group Statutory Auditor (the Policy) applies to all Barclays' subsidiaries 
and other material entities over which Barclays has significant influence. 
The core principle of the Policy is that non-audit services (other than 
those legally required to be carried out by the Group's auditor) should 
only be performed by the auditor in certain, controlled circumstances. 
The Policy sets out those types of services that are strictly prohibited 
and those that are allowable in principle. Any service types that do not 
fall within either list are considered by the Committee Chairman on a 
case by case basis, supported by a risk assessment provided by 
management. Since October 2015, the Committee has also required all 
new engagements of KPMG for non-audit services to be considered in 
light of the Policy and has maintained oversight of such services on the 
same basis as for PwC. In particular, KPMG was not permitted to provide 
any non-audit service that might have continued beyond mid-2016  
if it had potential to cause independence issues.

During 2016, the Policy was revised to reflect the FRC's draft Ethical 
Standard for Auditors published in September 2015, which implemented 
the EU's revised Statutory Audit Directive. The new Ethical Standard is 
effective from financial years commencing on or after 17 June 2016, 
meaning that Barclays must comply with effect from 1 January 2017. 
However, the Committee decided to early adopt the requirements of the 
new Ethical Standard from 1 July 2016, to align with the point at which 
KPMG started its required period of independence. In order to comply 
with the new Ethical Standard, significant amendments were made to 
the list of services that are strictly prohibited by the Policy. A number of 
services being undertaken by PwC or KPMG were required to be exited 
following adoption of the new Policy, with any exceptions being 
approved by the Chairman and notified to the Committee.

Under the Policy, the Committee has pre-approved all allowable services 
up to £100,000, or £25,000 for tax advisory services, however, all 
proposed work, regardless of the fees, must be sponsored by a senior 
executive and recorded on a centralised online system, with a detailed 
explanation of the clear commercial benefit arising from engaging the 
auditor over other potential service providers. The audit firm 
engagement partner must also confirm that the engagement has been 
approved in accordance with the auditor's own internal ethical standards 
and does not pose any threat to the auditor's independence or 
objectivity. All requests to engage the auditor are assessed by 
independent management before work can commence. Requests for 
allowable service types in respect of which the fees are expected to 
meet or exceed the above thresholds must be approved by the 
Chairman of the Committee before work is permitted to begin. Services 
where the fees are expected to be £250,000 or higher must be approved 
by the Committee as a whole. All expenses and disbursements must be 
included in the fees calculation. The thresholds were not amended when 
the Policy was revised in 2016.

What we did in 2016
Board Audit Committee report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 67

During 2016, all engagements where expected fees met or exceeded the 
above thresholds were evaluated by either the Committee Chairman or 
the Committee as a whole who, before confirming any approval, assured 
themselves that there was justifiable reason for engaging the auditor 
and that its independence and objectivity would not be threatened. 
No requests to use PwC were declined in 2016 (2015: two), with one 
request to use KPMG declined (2015: n/a). On a quarterly basis, the 
Committee scrutinised details of individually approved and pre-approved 
services undertaken by PwC and KPMG in order to satisfy itself that they 
posed no risk to independence, either in isolation or on an aggregated 
basis. For the purposes of the Policy, the Committee has determined that 
any pre-approved service of a value of under £50,000 is to be regarded 
as clearly trivial in terms of its impact on Barclays' financial statements 
and has required the Group Financial Controller to specifically review  
and confirm to the Committee that any pre-approved service with a value 
of £50,000-£100,000 (or up to £25,000 for tax advisory services) may 
be regarded as clearly trivial. The Committee undertook a review of 
pre-approved services at its meeting in December 2016 and satisfied 
itself that such pre-approved services were clearly trivial in the context 
of their impact on the financial statements. 

The fees paid to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted 
to £49m (2015: £43m), of which £8m (2015: £9m) was payable in 
respect of non-audit services. Non-audit services represented 20.6% 
of the statutory audit fee (2015: 24.2%). A breakdown of the fees paid  
to the auditor for statutory audit and non-audit work can be found in 
Note 42 on page 362. Of the £8m of non-audit services provided by 
PwC during 2016, the significant categories of engagement, i.e. services 
where the fees amounted to more than £500,000, included:
■■ audit-related services: additional work to facilitate the transition 

to KPMG as Barclays' statutory auditor 
■■ transaction support: services provided in connection with the 

sell-down of Barclays' holding in Barclays Africa, including acting 
as the reporting accountant on the circular issued to Barclays' 
shareholders and providing comfort on associated documentation

■■ quality assurance: services performed on behalf of Barclays Africa over 
work conducted by Barclays in connection with the separation 
arrangements from Barclays.

The fees paid to KPMG for non-audit work during 2016 were  
£17.3m (2015: £38m). Significant categories of engagement approved  
in 2016 included:
■■ Audit-related services: services provided in connection with  

minimum regulatory requirements for audits of benchmark interest 
rate submissions.  

The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014
As described in this report, Barclays is in compliance with the 
requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to 
the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the 
external auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of  
non-audit services.

Governance in Action –  
Statutory auditor transition 
A significant activity for the Committee during 2016 has been 
overseeing the transition of Barclays' statutory auditor from PwC 
to KPMG. Following the audit tender that concluded in mid-2015, 
KPMG will become Barclays statutory auditor with effect from the 
2017 financial year onwards. The Committee has undertaken 
activity to manage the transition period to facilitate a smooth 
handover of responsibilities.

The Committee has overseen the steps required to enable KPMG 
to achieve independence by 1 July 2016. This included:
■■ assigning a dedicated transition team to support operational 

activities, including progressing a global master services 
agreement and local jurisdictional agreements

■■ agreeing with KPMG the overall plan to achieve independence and 
assessing regular reports from KPMG on the progress being made

■■ monitoring the orderly termination of non-audit services being 
provided by KPMG to Barclays that would be prohibited when 
KPMG becomes statutory auditor

■■ requiring KPMG to comply from 1 June 2016 with the provisions 
of the Group's policies relating to the statutory auditor, specifically, 
The Group Policy on the Provision of Services by the Group 
Statutory Auditor and the Group Policy on Employment of 
Employees or Workers from the Statutory Auditor, and requiring 
management to report to the Committee on any services or 
appointments undertaken in line with these policies

■■ accepting a formal independence letter from KPMG. This included 
a list of ongoing non-audit services that are deemed permissible 
and which have been approved in accordance with Barclays' policy 
and confirmation of KPMG's compliance with applicable ethics and 
independence rules.

Once independence was achieved, the Committee oversaw the 
handover plan and the transition to business as usual. This included:
■■ inviting the lead audit partner of KPMG to attend Committee 

meetings as part of the process of shadowing PwC's 2016 audit
■■ arranging for the lead audit partner of KPMG to attend meetings 

of the Board Reputation Committee and Board Risk Committee
■■ receiving a briefing from KPMG on accounting developments, 

covering: Impairment and the impact of IFRS9 (Financial 
Instruments); Valuations; Negative interest rates; Structural 
Reform; IFRS15 (Revenue from contracts with customers) and 
IFRS16 (Leases)

■■ discussing with KPMG accounting policy interpretations following 
KPMG's review of Barclays' accounting policies

■■ assessing regular reports from KPMG on the progress being 
made with key activities, including building the Barclays' audit team 
and gaining an understanding of Barclays' key processes, systems 
and controls

■■ reviewing the report on KPMG issued by the FRC's Audit Quality 
Review team

■■ scheduling a planning meeting between the Committee and KPMG 
for the second quarter of 2017 to discuss the audit strategy and 
provide input.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
68 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

 The Committee's focus during 2016 has 
been driven by a number of key challenges, 
including emerging economic and political 
risks, notably those associated with the EU 
Referendum and the subsequent vote by the 
UK to leave the EU. 

Dear Fellow Shareholders
The Committee's focus during 2016 has been driven by a number of key 
challenges. First, Barclays has been implementing its new strategy and 
executing its Structural Reform Programme, which has some particular 
implications in terms of capital and liquidity management across 
Barclays' legal entities. Second, there was continued focus on any 
emerging risks arising in our key markets in the UK, US and South Africa 
as a consequence of any macroeconomic deterioration or disruption in 
financial market conditions. Finally, there were the challenges presented 
by emerging economic and political risks, notably those associated with 
the EU Referendum and the subsequent vote by the UK to leave the EU.

Considerations for risk appetite for 2016 and the Medium Term Plan 
(MTP) included credit cycle conditions; the impact of ongoing low 
commodity prices; a potential slowdown in China; and the likelihood of 
interest rate rises. Consequently, the recommendation of the risk function, 
which was endorsed by the Committee, was that a conservative approach 
to growth should be maintained, with a focus on core products and 
markets. We expected continued volatility in external conditions and 
aimed to ensure that the Group was conservatively positioned. Headwinds 
developed during 2016 with the potential to have a significant first-order 
impact on Barclays' businesses, including heightened economic risk in the 
UK post the EU Referendum; increased geo-political risk following the US 
presidential election; and the IAS19 position of Barclays' pension scheme, 
which is vulnerable to market volatility. Other emerging risks with the 
potential to impact Barclays include interest rate and credit spread 
movements; UK property price stress; potential transmission impacts of 
any slowdown in China; and ongoing volatility in oil prices, which remain 
low. All of these potential risks continue to be actively managed and the 
risk profile and actions taken are subject to regular oversight by the 
Committee. In these circumstances, we were pleased with the capital 
and leverage performance for 2016, although impairment performance 
was adverse to plan, primarily as a result of one-off effects reflecting 
management's review of impairment modelling in the UK and US 
Cards businesses. 

In early 2016, Barclays appointed a new Chief Risk Officer,  
C.S. Venkatakrishnan, an appointment that was recommended to the 
Board by the Committee. The Committee oversaw the transition, 
specifically requesting information from the outgoing Chief Risk Officer 
on the transition plans and handover arrangements and seeking 
assurance from the new Chief Risk Officer that he had been provided 
with all of the information needed to enable him to fulfil his 
responsibilities. The Committee has welcomed the opportunity to work 
closely with the new Chief Risk Officer during 2016. We have also seen 
greater emphasis emerge over 2016 on the responsibilities of the first 

line of defence for managing risk in their businesses, with the chief 
executives of each business attending Committee meetings to present 
directly to the Committee, with the support of their chief risk officers, 
on the risk profile of their business and how risk is being managed.

My own responsibilities as Chairman of the Committee were re-
emphasised during 2016, with the introduction in March 2016 of the 
UK's Senior Managers Regime. Under this regulatory regime, I have 
specific prescribed responsibilities for safeguarding the independence 
of and overseeing the performance of the risk function, including 
the performance of the Chief Risk Officer, in line with regulatory 
requirements. In addition to my regular meetings with the Chief Risk 
Officer and members of his senior management, I have led the 
Committee in encouraging the risk function to develop a way of 
assessing risk management capability, which we have also agreed will 
be subject to a periodic, external review. The risk function has also been 
encouraged to develop a way of measuring risk culture across the Group. 

During 2016, I continued to liaise closely with the Chairman of the Board 
Audit Committee, particularly with regard to operational risk issues, 
where there is some degree of overlap between the remit of the two 
committees. I also attended a meeting of the risk committee of Barclays 
US IHC to gain a first-hand insight into the risk issues being addressed 
by management in that entity. I continued my practice of meeting 
regularly with other members of senior management and continued 
to engage with Barclays regulators in the UK and US.

Committee performance
The Committee's performance during 2016 was assessed as part of the 
independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review. I am pleased 
to report that the conclusion of my Board colleagues was that the 
Committee is regarded as thorough and effective and that the Board 
has a high degree of confidence in the diligence and coverage of the 
Committee. The main area identified for improvement was to ensure 
that the co-operation and collaboration between the Committee and the 
Board Audit and Board Reputation Committees continues to capture all 
significant risk issues effectively. I will be working even more closely with 
my fellow Board Committee chairmen on this over the coming year. You 
can read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness review on 
pages 81 to 83.

Looking ahead
2017 will be a key year for Barclays in delivering its strategy, as it 
completes its restructuring and makes significant steps in implementing 
the new legal entity structure required under Structural Reform.  
I expect the Committee to focus on strategic risk, with an emphasis on 
promoting even greater linkages between strategy formulation and risk 
management, and ensuring that there is appropriate global oversight 
of risk across the new Group structure.

Tim Breedon 
Chairman, Board Risk Committee
22 February 2017 

What we did in 2016
Board Risk Committee report 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 69

Board Risk Committee allocation of time (%)
2016 2015

1

2

3

4

1 Risk profile/risk appetite (including 
capital and liquidity management)

52 43

2 Key risk issues 26 31
3 Internal control/risk policies 8 11
4 Other (including remuneration and 

governance issues)
14 15

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive 
Directors. Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members 
can be found in their biographies on pages 51 to 52.

The Committee met eight times in 2016, with one of the meetings held 
at Barclays' New York offices. A meeting was held specifically to consider 
the risk considerations arising from the outcome of the EU Referendum 
result, further details of which can be found on page 72. The chart 
above shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2016. 
Committee meetings were attended by management, including the 
Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, 
Chief Risk Officer, Barclays Treasurer and General Counsel, as well as 
representatives from the businesses and other representatives from 
the risk function. Representatives from the current external auditor, 
PwC and, from 1 July 2016, representatives from the incoming external 
auditor, KPMG, also attended meetings.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Tim Breedon 8/8
Mike Ashley 8/8
Reuben Jeffery* 7/8
Diane Schueneman 8/8
Steve Thieke 8/8

*Did not attend one meeting owing to a prior commitment

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee's main responsibilities include:
■■ recommending to the Board the total level of financial and operational 

risk the Group is prepared to take (risk appetite) to achieve the 
creation of long-term shareholder value

■■ monitoring financial and operational risk appetite, including setting 
limits for individual types of risk, e.g., credit, market and funding risk

■■ monitoring the Group's financial and operational risk profile
■■ ensuring that financial and operational risk is taken into account 

during the due diligence phase of any strategic transaction
■■ providing input from a financial and operational risk perspective 

into the deliberations of the Board Remuneration Committee. 

The Committee's terms of reference are available at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below:

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Risk appetite and 
stress testing, i.e. the 
level of risk the Group 
chooses to take in 
pursuit of its business 
objectives, including 
testing whether the 
Group's financial 
position and risk 
profile provide 
sufficient resilience 
to withstand the 
impact of severe 
economic stress.

The risk context to MTP, the 
financial parameters and 
constraints and mandate and 
scale limits for specific business 
risk exposures; the Group's 
internal stress testing exercises, 
including scenario selection and 
financial constraints, stress 
testing themes and the results 
and implications of stress tests, 
including those run by the Bank 
of England (BoE).

■■ Assessed the risk context for the 2016 
MTP, including general economic and 
financial conditions and how these had 
been reflected in planning assumptions.

■■ Debated the assumptions, parameters 
and results of the internal stress test 
of the risk appetite of the 2016 MTP.

■■ Discussed and agreed mandate and 
scale limits for market and credit risk.

■■ Approved the parameters for the 
European Banking Authority stress test.

■■ Approved the parameters for BoE stress 
test scenario expansion. 

■■ Evaluated the BoE stress test results, 
including updates on stress testing 
governance and methodology and 
assessing potential contingency plan 
actions.

■■ Debated regulatory and market reaction 
to the BoE stress test results.

■■ Considered and approved internal stress 
test themes and the financial constraints 
and scenarios for stress testing risk 
appetite for the 2017 MTP.

■■ Regularly monitored the progress  
of the US IHC in preparing for the 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) stress test.

The Committee recommended the 
proposed risk appetite for 2016 to the 
Board for approval, although asked 
management to develop a contingency 
plan with identified triggers and actions 
that could be implemented if the stress 
occurred. It also emphasised to 
management that mandate and scale 
limits should be set at appropriate 
levels, reflecting the desire to focus on 
conservative growth in core products 
and markets. The Committee approved 
credit and market risk limits and 
requested that additional limits were 
set for market risk in order to enhance 
monitoring and control. It also asked 
management to review limits and 
guidelines and develop a revised 
framework for single name risk 
management, which it subsequently 
considered and approved. The 
Committee approved the stress test 
results for submission to the BoE. After 
evaluating feedback from the BoE on 
the stress test, the Committee 
encouraged management to engage 
with the BoE on specific points where 
additional clarity on regulatory 
expectations was desirable.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
70 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Capital and funding, 
i.e. having sufficient 
capital and financial 
resources to meet the 
Group's regulatory 
requirements and its 
obligations as they fall 
due, to maintain its 
credit rating, to 
support growth and 
strategic options.

The trajectory to achieving 
required regulatory and internal 
targets and capital and leverage 
ratios, including the potential 
impact of Structural Reform 
and legal entity requirements. 

■■ Debated on a regular basis, capital 
performance against plan, tracking the 
capital trajectory, any challenges and 
opportunities and regulatory policy 
developments.

■■ Assessed on a regular basis liquidity 
performance against both internal and 
regulatory requirements.

■■ Regularly monitored capital and funding 
requirements on a legal entity basis, 
including evaluating proposed capital 
and liquidity processes for Barclays UK.

■■ Debated with management proposed 
actions to be taken to restructure the 
Group's asset swaps and ESHLA portfolio 
in order to reduce the impact of market 
volatility on capital.

The Committee supported the forecast 
capital and funding trajectory and the 
actions identified by management to 
manage the Group's capital position, 
including the actions taken to restructure 
asset swaps and the ESHLA portfolio. 
The Committee approved the proposed 
capital and liquidity processes for Barclays 
UK for submission to the regulator.

Political and 
economic risk, i.e. 
the impact on the 
Group's risk profile of 
political and economic 
developments and 
macroeconomic 
conditions.

The potential impact on the 
Group's risk profile of political 
developments, such as the UK's 
EU Referendum and the US 
Presidential election, political and 
economic risk in South Africa, 
and weakening macroeconomic 
conditions, such as disruption 
and volatility in financial markets.

■■ Closely monitored the potential impact of 
the UK's EU Referendum on the Group's 
risk profile and risk management – see 
the case study on page 72 for further 
details.

■■ Requested an assessment of the 
potential impact of negative interest rates 
in the UK on Barclays and on UK banks 
generally, evaluating the potential impact 
on risk appetite, on customers and on 
Barclays' models.

■■ Continued to assess the economic and 
political situation in South Africa and the 
potential impact on the Group's risk 
profile, including assessing the potential 
risk of a sovereign credit rating 
downgrade and the action taken by 
management to position the business 
appropriately. 

■■ Continued to assess Chinese economic 
metrics and the potential for the global 
impact of any economic slowdown in 
China.

■■ Discussed the impact of market volatility 
on Barclays' pension scheme.

■■ Monitored Barclays' exposures to certain 
European banks in view of potential 
specific stresses for individual banks and 
general economic and political conditions 
in the Eurozone. 

The Committee identified interest rate 
risk as a potential area of emerging risk 
and asked management for an 
assessment of Barclays' sensitivity to 
changes in interest rates and inflation, 
which was presented to the Committee 
in the fourth quarter. The Committee 
suggested that the Board was briefed 
on this subject and a briefing session is 
planned for 2017. 

The Committee satisfied itself that the 
actions taken to position Barclays' 
business in South Africa were 
appropriate in the context of the 
identified economic and political risk. 
It continues to keep the potential 
impact of a Chinese slowdown under 
active review and will be updated by 
management in early 2017 with an 
assessment of the risk horizon. Given 
the political and economic uncertainty 
in Italy that re-emerged in late 2016, the 
Committee asked management to 
renew its focus on reducing any 
redenomination risk arising from 
Barclays' operations in Italy. 

Specific sector risk, 
i.e. the Group's risk 
profile in sectors 
showing signs of 
stress, such as the 
oil sector.

The Group's exposures to the oil 
and commodities sectors in light 
of the ongoing price weakness 
and volatility in these sectors 
during 2016.

■■ Continued to regularly assess the Group's 
exposures to the oil sector, including how 
the portfolio was performing and whether 
this was in line with expectations given 
the actions that had been taken to 
manage or restructure Barclays' exposures.

The Committee satisfied itself that the 
actions taken by management were 
appropriate. Given ongoing volatility in 
this sector it will continue to monitor 
the portfolio for any further signs of 
stress that may require additional 
action.

What we did in 2016
Board Risk Committee report 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 71

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Credit risk, i.e. the 
potential for financial 
loss if customers fail 
to fulfil their 
contractual 
obligations.

Conditions in the UK housing 
market, particularly in London and 
the South East and the Group's 
risk appetite for and management 
of sectors such as the buy-to-let 
sector, given changes in taxation; 
levels of UK consumer 
indebtedness, particularly in the 
context of the risk of rising 
interest rates; and the 
performance of the Cards 
business, particularly the US 
Cards business, including levels 
of impairment.

■■ Continued to assess conditions in the UK 
property market for any signs of stress.

■■ Evaluated how management was 
tracking and responding to rising levels 
of consumer indebtedness.

■■ Scrutinised the performance of the Cards 
business, including reviewing performance 
against risk appetite, evaluating the 
drivers of impairment in the UK and US 
businesses and assessing actions being 
taken to ensure that the performance of 
certain business segments remained 
within agreed risk appetite.

The Committee continued to encourage 
management to carry on with its 
conservative approach to UK mortgage 
lending, particularly in view of signs of 
slowdown the market post the EU 
Referendum. It also encouraged 
management to continue its close 
monitoring of overall levels of consumer 
indebtedness. The Committee 
challenged the credit performance of 
certain business segments in the US 
Cards business and encouraged 
management to complete the actions 
that had been identified to improve 
credit performance. It also emphasised 
to management the need to strengthen 
the linkages between business strategy 
and risk appetite.

Operational risk, i.e. 
costs arising from 
human factors, 
inadequate processes 
and systems or 
external events.

The Group's operational risk 
capital requirements and any 
material changes to the Group's 
operational risk profile and 
performance of specific 
operational risks against agreed 
risk appetite.

■■ Tracked operational risk key indicators via 
regular reports from the Head of 
Operational Risk. 

■■ Evaluated the potential impact of 
regulatory developments on operational 
risk capital requirements.

■■ Debated specific areas of operational risk, 
including fraud; transaction operations; 
technology; payments; and cyber-risk, 
evaluating the extent of any losses, the 
overall threat landscape, risk trends and 
the controls in place, in order to assess 
the potential impact on operational risk 
capital requirements.

The Committee focused its attention 
on the financial and capital impacts of 
operational risk, with specific attention 
on key risks that were outside appetite. 
It encouraged management to 
implement greater links between the 
control environment in each business 
and the operational risk capital allocated 
to that business. It also emphasised 
to management that there should be 
greater co-ordination between the key 
risks highlighted to the Committee and 
the operational risk control issues 
escalated to the Board Audit Committee, 
which is being addressed via the new 
chief controls office. 

Risk framework 
and governance 

The frameworks, policies 
and talent and tools in place 
to support effective risk 
management and oversight.

■■ Evaluated model risk and plans in place 
to enhance Barclays' models and 
modelling capabilities.

■■ Tracked the progress of significant risk 
management projects, including the 
plans in place to achieve compliance 
with BCBS239 risk data aggregation 
principles.

■■ Debated any risk management matters 
raised by Barclays' regulators and the 
actions being taken by management 
to respond.

■■ Discussed and endorsed the revised 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF) from the perspective of financial 
and operational risk. 

■■ Oversaw the transition and handover 
to a new Chief Risk Officer.

■■ Encouraged management to find ways 
of assessing risk capability and risk 
management culture.

The Committee will continue to track 
the delivery of plans to enhance 
modelling and will focus on this during 
2017 as part of its oversight of the 
model risk principal risk. The Committee 
encouraged management to continue 
to improve risk data quality, including 
embedding accountability for risk data 
quality with the business chief risk 
officers. The Committee will continue to 
track management's response to any 
risk management matters raised by the 
Group's regulators. 

The Committee was satisfied that the 
handover to the new Chief Risk Officer 
was appropriate. The Committee 
welcomed the development of a risk 
management capability scorecard and 
asked for risk management capability to 
be evaluated by an external third party 
on a periodic basis, with a view to 
starting in 2017. It also welcomed the 
proposal to measure risk culture and 
asked for this to be fed into the Board 
Reputation Committee's overall 
assessment of Barclays' culture.

Remuneration The scope of any risk adjustments 
to be taken into account by the 
Board Remuneration Committee 
when making remuneration 
decisions for 2016.

■■ Debated the Risk function's view of 2016 
performance, making a recommendation 
to the Board Remuneration Committee 
on the financial and operational risk 
factors to be taken into account in 
remuneration decisions for 2016.

The Committee asked for capital and 
liquidity on a stressed basis to be taken 
into account when finalising the risk 
input to remuneration decisions.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
72 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

In addition, the Committee also covered the following matters in 2016: 
■■ assessed Barclays' exposures to the leveraged finance market and 

general conditions in that market
■■ was briefed by PwC on any risk matters associated with the 2015 

year-end audit, specifically impairment; the valuation of the ESHLA 
portfolio; and a valuation disparity with a third party

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment of the Committee's 
performance and any areas of Committee performance that needed 
to be enhanced

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of reference, recommending them 
to the Board for approval. 

What we did in 2016
Board Risk Committee report 

Governance in Action –  
contingency planning for the UK's EU Referendum 
A significant external risk event in 2016 was the UK's Referendum  
on its continued membership of the EU. The Board Risk Committee  
actively tracked this emerging risk throughout 2016, both before  
and after the vote.

Pre-EU Referendum activity by the Committee included:
■■ debating the UK's potential exit from the EU, including evaluating 

an assessment of the potential impacts on Barclays of a leave vote 
and discussing the key messages for policymakers and prudential 
authorities on the risks

■■ evaluating Barclays' potential exposures if there were to be a vote 
to leave the EU, including assessing the steps taken by management 
to mitigate any risk (such as reducing any currency mismatches) in 
order to position Barclays defensively to manage the impact of any 
volatility on market and funding risk

■■ assessing the likelihood of any operational risk issues that might 
arise if there was a period of market volatility following a leave vote

■■ conducting an overall review of the appropriateness of Barclays' 
preparations for any market dislocation

■■ reporting to the Board on the Committee's deliberations.

In addition to the activities undertaken by the Committee, Board 
members, including certain non-executive Directors, participated in a 
Group crisis management planning exercise based on the UK voting 
to leave the EU. The exercise focused on Barclays' response and 
communications planning in the event of a vote to leave; articulating 
some of the high level impact scenarios following a vote to leave; and 
determining the decisions and ensuing direction required from 
Barclays' Crisis Leadership Team.

Post-EU Referendum activity by the Committee included:
■■ convening a special meeting to discuss and evaluate the 

effectiveness of Barclays' preparations, concluding that the plans 
developed had been executed satisfactorily

■■ assessing the performance of the actions taken to manage the 
impact of volatility on market and funding risk

■■ evaluating a revised stressed outlook, based on revised economic 
assumptions, and its impact on Barclays' risk profile, deliberating the 
effect of the revised outlook on forecast impairment and on capital 
and funding, market risk and credit risk

■■ considering Barclays' exposures to European banks in anticipation 
of potential market disruption in the Eurozone and the actions that 
had been taken to limit such exposures

■■ discussing with management the actions that had been taken to 
reduce risk appetite and limits on exposures to residential property 
development, high loan-to-value mortgages and buy to-let lending 
and other actions that had been implemented to manage risk in 
higher risk retail segments and corporate portfolios

■■ encouraging management to consider the strategic implications 
of the leave vote 

■■ emphasising to management the need to fully and openly engage 
on matters of mutual concern with the UK government and 
regulators given the new political and economic environment

■■ continuing to track the potential impact of the leave vote and the 
actions being taken by management to deal with any emerging 
signs of stress in Barclays' portfolios

■■ reporting to the Board on the Committee's deliberations.

The full Board also met in the aftermath of the vote result to be 
briefed on how Barclays had performed during the period of volatility 
immediately following the result, including discussing Barclays' capital 
and liquidity position; market conditions; communications with 
employees and with customers and clients; contact with regulators 
and the UK government; the outlook for the UK economy; share price 
performance and potential strategic impacts.

Read more about Barclays' risk management on pages 145 
to 162 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at  
barclays.com/annualreport 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 73

 Achieving and sustaining a culture where 
all of our people demonstrate consistent 
behaviours and conduct underpinned by 
the Barclays' values is key to delivering high 
performance for all our stakeholders and, 
therefore, to our long-term success. 

Dear Fellow Shareholders
One of the key areas of focus for the Committee during 2016 was 
encouraging management to develop a way of better understanding and 
measuring intangible areas such as behaviour and culture. Barclays has 
a strong and resonant purpose, ‘Helping people achieve their ambitions 
in the right way', and a well understood set of values, ‘Respect, Integrity, 
Service, Excellence and Stewardship'. This culture is firmly endorsed 
from the top: achieving and sustaining a culture where all of our people 
demonstrate consistent behaviours and conduct, underpinned by 
Barclays' values, is key to delivering high performance for all our 
stakeholders and, therefore, to our long-term success. 

Our challenge has been how to co-ordinate the efforts to build culture 
across the Group and obtain assurance that progress is being made. 
Significant focus was given during 2016 to developing consistent 
measurement and reporting of culture and you can read about the 
Committee's role in this important initiative in the case study on page 
76. A similar approach has been taken to developing a set of indicators 
to allow us to measure progress across the Committee's other areas of 
responsibility: conduct, complaints and citizenship.

During 2016, the Committee continued to track the exposure of Barclays, 
and the financial sector in general, to reputational risks. It also placed 
a renewed focus on the initiatives under way to build and manage 
Barclays' reputation with its key stakeholders. We also continued to 
exercise oversight of the Barclays' Compliance function, including 
approving its annual business plan, budget and resources. 

Under the UK's Senior Manager Regime, which was introduced in March 
2016, I have specific responsibilities with regard to safeguarding the 
independence and integrity of Barclays' Compliance function and for 
overseeing its performance, including that of the Head of Compliance. 
To this end, I regularly meet with the Head of Compliance to receive 
briefings on the work of Compliance and provide support when 
necessary. I also meet regularly with other members of senior 
management, including those in the Corporate Relations, Citizenship 
and Reputation Risk teams. 

This is my first report as Chairman of the Board Reputation Committee 
and I wish to record my thanks to Sir Michael Rake, who I succeeded 
as Chairman on 1 January 2016, and to Wendy Lucas-Bull and 
Frits van Paasschen, who both stepped down from the Committee on 
their retirement from the Barclays Board during 2016. Mike Ashley and 
Mary Francis subsequently joined the Committee to ensure we have the 
right balance of skills and experience and appropriate cross-membership 
with other Board Committees.

The report on pages 74 to 76 sets out details of the material matters 
considered by the Committee during 2016. 

Committee performance
The Committee's performance during 2016 was assessed as part of the 
independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review. I can report 
that my fellow Board members considered that the Committee has 
made progress in defining its role and is performing well. The main area 
identified for improvement was around ensuring that Board members 
have greater awareness of the Committee's mandate and core agenda. 
You can read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness 
review on pages 81 to 83.

Looking ahead
Cultural transformation remains firmly on the Committee's agenda and 
we will continue to track key indicators and measure the progress being 
made. This will be increasingly important as Barclays implements its 
Structural Reform Programme and begins to establish separate legal 
entities within the Group. My key objective in 2016 was to put the 
Committee at the centre of Barclays' drive to be a leader in conduct, 
culture and reputation - matters at which we have not always excelled 
in the past. There is still lots to do, but I believe that the leadership and 
processes that we have now put in place give us a great foundation on 
which to build. 

Sir Gerry Grimstone 
Chairman, Board Reputation Committee
22 February 2017 

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Reputation Committee report

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
74 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Reputation Committee report

Board Reputation Committee allocation of time (%)
2016 2015

1
2

3

5
1 Citizenship 8 6
2 Reputational issues 27 13
3 Culture, conduct and compliance 57 57
4 Operational risk* 0 19
5 Other 8 6

*Oversight of operational risk now falls within the remit of the Board Risk Committee

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors. During 
2016 there were a number of changes to the membership of the 
Committee, which are set out in the table opposite. 

The Committee met five times during 2016 with one of the meetings 
held at Barclays' New York offices. The chart above shows how it allocated 
its time. Committee meetings were attended by representatives from 
management, including the Group Chief Executive, Chief Internal Auditor, 
Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel, Group Corporate Relations Director and 
Heads of Compliance, Conduct Risk and Operational Risk, as well as 
representatives from the businesses and other functions. Representatives 
from the FCA also attended a meeting during 2016.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Sir Gerry Grimstone (from 1 January 2016) 5/5
Mike Ashley (from 1 May 2016) 4/4
Mary Francis (from 1 November 2016) 2/2
Wendy Lucas-Bull (to 1 March 2016) 0/0*
Dambisa Moyo 5/5
Diane de Saint Victor 5/5
Frits van Paasschen (to 28 April 2016) 1/1

* There were no Committee meetings held prior to 1 March 2016, when Wendy 
Lucas-Bull left the Committee

Committee role and responsibilities 
The principal purpose of the Committee is to:
■■ support the Board in promoting its collective vision of Barclays' 

purpose, values, culture and behaviours
■■ ensure, on behalf of the Board, the efficiency of the processes for 

identification and management of conduct and reputational risk
■■ oversee Barclays' conduct in relation to its corporate and societal 

obligations, including setting the guidance, direction and policies for 
Barclays' approach to customer and regulatory matters and Barclays' 
Citizenship Strategy, including the management of Barclays' 
economic, social and environmental contribution. 

The Committee's terms of reference are available at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below:

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Conduct risk The risk of detriment to 
customers, clients, market 
integrity, competition or Barclays 
from the inappropriate supply 
of financial services, including 
instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct.

■■ Discussed updates from management on 
conduct risk and requested the development of 
a dashboard report of conduct indicators to be 
presented to each meeting. 

■■ Monitored on a regular basis performance 
against agreed conduct risk indicators.

■■ Debated the indicators that had been developed 
to measure material conduct risks and issues, 
including providing feedback on indicators for 
policy breaches.

■■ Discussed with BIA its view of the management 
of conduct risk across the Group, with particular 
emphasis on maintaining focus on conduct risk 
through periods of change.

■■ Provided input, via the Committee Chairman, 
to the scope of BIA's review of the conduct 
risk programme.

■■ Discussed directly with the senior management 
of Barclays International and Barclays UK their 
view of conduct and cultural issues in those 
businesses and the status of any initiatives in 
place to strengthen conduct and culture.

■■ Confirmed with management that reviews had 
been undertaken to learn lessons from issues 
that had arisen at other banks and financial 
institutions, e.g. sales-based incentive schemes. 

■■ Tracked the levels of attestation by colleagues 
globally to The Barclays Way, the Group's code 
of conduct.

The Committee requested further 
focus on product propositions and 
suitability and updates on product 
development and controls. In 2017, it 
will receive a quarterly report on new 
products. It provided input on the 
development of the dashboard, 
including requesting that it 
incorporates reports from BIA and 
draws on external data points where 
available. The Committee reiterated 
to management the importance of 
ensuring that the focus on conduct is 
maintained in those businesses or 
jurisdictions that Barclays is exiting or 
where it is reducing its presence. The 
Committee encouraged management 
to bring contingent workers into the 
scope of The Barclays Way training 
and arrangements are being made 
for all Committee members to 
complete the training themselves.

The scope of any conduct risk 
adjustments to be taken into 
account by the Board Remuneration 
Committee when making 
remuneration decisions for 2016.

■■ Considered the proposed adjustments to be 
made to the incentive pool from a conduct 
risk perspective.

The Committee endorsed the 
methodology used and the resulting 
adjustments proposed.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 75

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Cultural change The progress being made on 
embedding of cultural change.

■■ Debated reports on the progress being made 
to effect cultural change across Barclays 
globally, discussing the measures being taken 
to define the desired culture and how it would 
be measured.

■■ Requested that a single report of cultural 
indicators was developed for reporting to each 
meeting and monitored on a regular basis 
performance against the agreed indicators.

■■ Discussed the status of the actions arising 
from the Banking Standards Board's (BSB) 
2015 assessment of Barclays, the progress of 
the 2016 assessment and the resulting 2016 
assessment report, asking management for 
greater co-ordination between the BSB's work 
and internal employee surveys.

Read more about the development 
of the culture measurement 
framework in the case study on 
page 76. 

Complaints Ensuring fair outcomes for 
customers by monitoring volumes 
of complaints received and the 
standard and quality of 
complaints handling processes.

■■ Requested the development of a dashboard 
report of complaints indicators to be presented 
to each meeting. 

■■ Monitored on a regular basis performance 
against agreed complaints indicators.

■■ Discussed the way in which complaints are 
handled and the focus on resolving complaints 
at first point of contact.

■■ Debated imminent industry-wide changes in 
the way in which reportable complaints are 
recorded and the potential for reputation risk.

The Committee encouraged 
management to develop a way of 
defining and reporting on complaints 
in the Barclays International's 
investment bank and a standard on 
complaint handling in that business 
will be issued in the first quarter of 
2017. The Committee requested that 
additional information on the top 
root causes of complaints was 
included in future reports.

Citizenship The status of Barclays' Citizenship 
Plan 2016-2018, the Shared 
Growth Ambition.

■■ Debated the targets to be set for the Shared 
Growth initiatives.

■■ Agreed with the proposal to focus activity 
around the themes of access to employment, 
to financial and digital empowerment and to 
financing. 

■■ Assessed status updates on the progress of 
the Shared Growth Ambition.

■■ Requested the development of a dashboard 
report of citizenship indicators to be presented 
to each meeting and monitored on a regular 
basis performance against agreed indicators.

■■ Considered and recommended to the Board 
for approval Barclays statement under the UK's 
Modern Slavery Act, which can be found on 
Barclays' website.

The Committee provided feedback 
on how the Shared Growth Ambition 
was articulated and requested 
additional information on the focus 
areas and metrics and how progress 
would be measured and reported. Its 
feedback was incorporated into the 
plan, which was launched in June 2016.

Read more about Barclays' 
approach to citizenship on pages 
23 to 24.

Reputation risk Ensuring that Barclays anticipates, 
identifies and manages 
reputational issues that may 
impact it or the industry now or in 
the future.

■■ Monitored current reputation risk issues, 
including Barclays' involvement in sensitive 
sectors such as defence or energy and fossil 
fuels.

■■ Assessed emerging reputational issues, such 
as climate change and the relaxation of certain 
sanctions against Iran. 

■■ Evaluated the measures being taken to 
proactively build and manage Barclays' 
reputation with stakeholders.

■■ Assessed external opinion survey results, the 
trends in indicators and factors influencing the 
survey results, including the potential impact 
of the EU Referendum and government 
leadership changes in the UK and US.

■■ Discussed the reputational risks associated 
with tax and how this was being managed 
across the Group, including the effectiveness 
of Barclays' Tax Principles and Code of Conduct.

The Committee provided feedback 
on the form and content of the 
reputation risk reports and how 
Barclays-specific and systemic risks 
might be monitored. It approved 
changes to Barclays' Sanctions Policy 
with regard to sanctions with Iran. 
The Committee requested a regular 
report setting out a rolling 12-month 
view of Barclays' communications 
campaigns. It also requested and 
received an update on Barclays' crisis 
management plans. It requested and 
received further information on 
Barclays' business in low tax 
jurisdictions. It asked for and receives 
regular reports from the Tax 
Management Oversight Committee 
on the transactions it has reviewed. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
76 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Reputation Committee report

The Committee also covered the following matters: 
■■ discussed the progress of plans to develop the Barclays brand
■■ endorsed the 2017 priorities for Barclays Corporate Relations team
■■ assessed the revised ERMF from a conduct and reputation risk 

perspective and recommended it to the Board for approval
■■ approved the 2016 Compliance business plan and tracked progress, 

including updates on resourcing and attrition levels

■■ received a report on management's annual review of the effectiveness 
of compliance with the Volcker Rule (restrictions on proprietary 
trading and certain fund investments by banks operating in the US)

■■ assessed and discussed a report on the Committee's performance 
during 2015

■■ approved revisions to its terms of reference and recommended them 
to the Board for approval.

Read more about Barclays' risk management on pages 145 to 162 
and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at  
barclays.com/annualreport 

Governance in Action –  
measuring cultural progress 
A primary area of focus for the Committee in 2016 was providing 
challenge and support to management in its delivery of cultural change. 
The Group Executive Committee confirmed conduct, culture and values 
as one of its execution priorities for 2016, with the aim of monitoring 
cultural change and bringing together different cultural indicators to 
form a coherent and consolidated view of culture across Barclays. 

Senior representatives from Compliance, Risk, HR and BIA presented to 
the Committee in early 2016 on the progress of implementing cultural 
change and proposals for developing a set of key indicators, along with 
clear governance structures and accountability for monitoring and 
sustaining cultural progress. The Committee debated and endorsed 
the following objectives:
■■ identify the desired culture end-state and how to measure progress 

towards achieving it
■■ develop a cultural measurement tool that provides simple and 

consistent reporting relevant to all stakeholders
■■ use the insights obtained to drive actions and further embed and 

sustain the desired values-based culture.

Ten cultural outcomes were identified, firmly linked to Barclays' values: 

Value Cultural outcomes

Respect Inclusion Collaboration

Integrity Speaking up Personal accountability

Service Customer/client centricity Balanced short and 
long-term needs

Excellence Simplicity and efficiency High performance

Stewardship Continuous improvement Strong reputation

For each desired cultural outcome, a set of internal qualitative and 
quantitative indicators was identified, along with external perception 
indicators. The indicators proposed were drawn from existing 
indicators used in the Group, such as the results from Your View  
(the employee opinion survey), external opinion survey results, 
BIA reports, performance reviews and indicators relating to risk 
management and compliance. Assessing these indicators will 
ensure that ongoing efforts are focused on priority issues and 
challenges that may impede cultural transformation.

In debating and endorsing the proposed cultural outcomes and 
indicators, the Committee provided feedback to management. 
It discussed in particular:
■■ how to embed the desired culture across middle-management 

and whether a targeted action plan was needed for this population
■■ how structuring incentives in the right way, based on personal 

accountability, could help drive the right culture and behaviours
■■ whether a more holistic approach was needed to performance 

reviews, with even more focus on rewarding how things were done, 
rather than what was achieved 

■■ that indicators based around the ‘how' assessments from 
performance reviews might be incorporated as a measure of success

■■ that existing indicators on audit issues and regulatory actions could 
be incorporated as a measure of success.

Feedback from the Committee was subsequently incorporated into 
the measurement tool. The Committee also requested the development 
of a culture dashboard, setting out quarterly performance against the 
agreed indicators. The first such report was made in September 2016, 
with a further report in December 2016, allowing the Committee to 
debate the results and trends and the areas identified for potential 
deep dive reviews or targeted action. During 2017, the Committee 
will continue to assess the quarterly indicators, the potential themes 
emerging and any specific challenges identified at a business and 
functional level.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 77

 It is a key part of our role to be satisfied 
that there are proper processes in place for 
executive succession. 

Dear Fellow Shareholders
Following his appointment as Group Chief Executive at the end of 2015, 
Jes Staley has been building his Group Executive Committee. Board level 
consideration is required for appointments to the Group Executive 
Committee and throughout 2016 the Board Nominations Committee 
continued to embed its oversight of Group Executive Committee 
succession planning. The Committee was updated on Barclays' talent 
and succession strategy and presented with role profiles and outputs 
from reviews of internal successors to Group Executive Committee roles. 
It is a key part of our role to be satisfied that there are proper processes 
in place for executive succession and at our regular meetings we 
discussed how potential successors are being provided with wider, 
relevant experience as part of their development. 

Another ongoing area of focus for the Committee in 2016 was the 
composition of our subsidiary boards in light of the legal, regulatory 
and governance requirements of Structural Reform. A great deal of 
consideration has been given to ensuring the independence of the board 
and board committees of Barclays' strategically significant subsidiaries, 
while allowing for collaboration between those boards and the Barclays 
Board. We have deliberated at length on the structure of the subsidiary 
boards and how they will report into and interact with our Group Board, 
which must continue to have appropriate oversight to ensure the 
effective operation of the Group and the protection of shareholder 
interests. During 2016, we finalised and recommended to the Board  
a set of Governance Guiding Principles, which document the high level 
expectations of the relationship that will exist between Barclays and its 
strategically significant subsidiaries.

The Committee regularly considered the balance of skills, experience 
and diversity needed on the Board during 2016. We refreshed the Board 
skills matrix to reflect the future strategy of the Group, identifying the 
attributes required to further strengthen and enhance the Board's 
effectiveness. We conducted searches for new non-executive Directors, 
approving the appointment of Mary Francis as non-executive Director: 
Mary brings both financial services experience and significant non-
executive directorship experience to the Board. We also considered 
subsidiary board composition at each of our Committee meetings, with 
a particular focus on populating the strategically significant subsidiary 
boards as we continue to embed Structural Reform. It is fair to say that 
attracting candidates with the skills, experience and qualities we need 
remains a considerable task: serving on a bank board is not an 
undertaking that anyone considers lightly and our success in securing 
the right candidates has been necessarily limited by the challenges 
they perceive.

When considering Board and Board Committee composition and 
succession plans, diversity remains at the front of our minds. 
We continued to receive regular updates on diversity and inclusion during 
2016 and were pleased to hear that the number of women in senior 
leadership positions had increased for the third successive year. As a 
Board we met our target of 25% female representation by 2015 and are 
progressing towards the target we set ourselves last year of 33% female 
representation by 2020. Diversity is not just about gender, however, 
and we are always mindful of diversity in all of its forms, even where 
we have not set specific targets.

Certain responsibilities for me as Chairman of the Committee have been 
prescribed by the Senior Managers Regime that was introduced in the 
UK in March 2016. Under that regime, I am responsible for ensuring that 
the Committee remains independent and that it performs effectively, 
fulfilling the responsibilities expected of it by our regulators in terms of 
overseeing decisions around the structure, size, composition, diversity 
and performance of the Board. The report that follows describes how 
these responsibilities have been fulfilled. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank my fellow Committee members for their continued 
support during 2016.

Committee performance
The performance of the Committee was assessed as part of the annual 
Board effectiveness review and I am pleased to report that is was 
assessed to be performing effectively. An area identified for improvement 
was around ensuring that there are more regular reports to the Board on 
the status of recruitment of new non-executive Directors, which I will 
address. The report on the Board effectiveness review contains more 
information and can be found on pages 81 to 83. 

Looking ahead
In 2017 we will continue to support the implementation of the new 
Group structure, ensuring that we have the right people in place to 
take Barclays forward. As appropriate, we will continue to make 
recommendations to the Board to ensure that we remain at the 
forefront of best practice corporate governance standards. 

John McFarlane
Chairman, Board Nominations Committee
22 February 2017

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Nominations Committee report

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
78 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Nominations Committee report

Board Nominations Committee allocation of time (%)
2016 2015

1

2

3

5
4

1 Corporate governance matters 20 17
2 Board and Committee composition 36 24
3 Succession planning and talent 31 47
4 Board effectiveness 8 6
5 Other 5 6

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive 
Directors. John McFarlane, as Chairman of the Board, is also Chairman of 
the Committee. Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Crawford Gillies, and Sir Gerry 
Grimstone, being the Chairmen of each of the other Board Committees, 
and Reuben Jeffery, are also members of the Committee. Details of the 
skills and experience of the Committee members can be found in their 
biographies on pages 51 and 52.

During 2016 there were seven meetings of the Committee, including one 
joint meeting with the Board Remuneration Committee. Three of these 
meetings were held at short notice to deal with specific matters. 
Attendance by members at Committee meetings is shown opposite 
and the chart above shows how the Committee allocated its time. 
Committee meetings were attended by the Group Chief Executive, with 
the Group HR Director, the Head of Talent, and the Global Head of 
Diversity and Inclusion attending as appropriate.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
John McFarlane 7/7
Mike Ashley 7/7
Tim Breedon* 4/7
Crawford Gillies 7/7
Sir Gerry Grimstone* 6/7
Reuben Jeffery* 6/7

* Did not attend certain meetings arranged and held at short notice owing to prior 
commitments

Note
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive excuse themselves from meetings when 
the Committee focuses on the matter of succession to their roles.

Committee role and responsibilities
The principal purpose of the Committee is to:
■■ support and advise the Board in ensuring that the composition  

of the Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables them 
to function effectively

■■ examine the skills, experience and diversity on the Board and plan 
succession for key Board appointments, planning ahead to deal with 
upcoming retirements and to fill any expected skills gaps

■■ provide Board level oversight of the Group's talent management 
programme and diversity and inclusion initiatives

■■ agree the annual Board effectiveness review process and monitor 
the progress of any actions arising.

You can find the Committee's terms of reference at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below:

Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Board and Board 
Committee 
composition

The membership of the Board 
and the current and future 
composition of the Board and 
its Committees.

■■ Debated a forward-looking plan of the 
expected skills and experience needed 
on the Board in the context of future 
strategic direction.

■■ Evaluated the revised Board skills matrix 
and, in consideration of known and 
expected changes to the Board, 
conducted a search for non-executive 
Directors. 

■■ Reviewed the membership of Board 
Committees. 

■■ Considered and provided input to Board 
Committee Chairman succession plans.

The Committee approved the revised 
skills matrix and agreed to conduct a 
search for new non-executive Directors 
in line with the requirements identified. 
It recommended the appointment of 
Mary Francis to the Board as non-
executive Director and she 
subsequently joined the Board with 
effect from 1 October 2016. The 
Committee concluded that additional 
accounting and auditing experience 
was needed in order to provide further 
options for succession to the Board 
Audit Committee chairmanship over 
time and a search for potential 
candidates continues.

Please refer to page 80 for more 
details of the Board's approach to the 
recruitment of new Directors.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 79

Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Executive succession 
planning and talent 
management

Group Executive Committee 
composition and succession 
following the appointment of 
the new Group Chief Executive 
in 2015.

Oversight of Group Chief 
Executive succession and 
appointments to key positions.

■■ Discussed updates from the Group HR 
Director on Group Executive Committee 
succession plans, including assessing 
emergency cover and the existing talent 
pipeline. 

■■ Considered external assessments and 
benchmarking of internal talent. 

■■ Debated approval requirements for 
appointments to the Group Executive 
Committee and other key positions across 
the Group. 

The Committee requested a 
presentation of key outputs from the 
Group Executive Committee offsite 
meeting on talent. It also asked to 
receive reports of the executive 
assessments carried out by an external 
facilitator. The Committee agreed the 
approval requirements for key positions, 
and subsequently approved the 
appointment of Tim Throsby as 
President of Barclays International in 
accordance with those requirements. 

Governance 
implications of 
Structural Reform 
and strategically 
significant subsidiary 
board composition

The board and board committee 
composition of strategically 
significant subsidiaries, including 
board size, structure and 
proposed interactions.

The governance principles for the 
relationship between Barclays and 
its strategically significant 
subsidiaries.

■■ Finalised Governance Guiding Principles 
for the Group post-Structural Reform, 
which set out ultimate decision-making 
powers, while respecting the rights and 
responsibilities of the boards of the 
strategically significant subsidiaries.

■■ Debated the required structure and 
composition of the strategically 
significant subsidiary boards and board 
committees in light of regulatory 
requirements and feedback.

■■ Scrutinised the proposed board skills 
matrix for Barclays UK. 

■■ Considered candidates for the positions 
of chairman of Barclays UK and Barclays 
International. 

■■ Considered appointments to the board 
of, and the associated fees for, the US 
IHC board.

■■ Considered appointments to the Barclays 
Africa board.

The Committee endorsed and 
recommended the Governance Guiding 
Principles to the Board for approval. It 
agreed the structure of the strategically 
significant subsidiary boards and 
commenced a search for non-executive 
directors, including for the position of 
chairman of Barclays UK, and agreed 
the process for the appointment of the 
chairman of Barclays International. The 
Committee approved the appointment 
of Directors to the US IHC board, 
including agreeing the fees to be paid 
to them. It also approved appointments 
to the Barclays Africa board.

Board effectiveness The progress made against the 
actions identified in the 2015 
Board effectiveness review.

The 2016 effectiveness review of 
the Board and its Committees.

■■ Discussed and agreed the proposed 
actions to be taken in response to the 
findings of the 2015 review.

■■ Reassessed the status of the actions 
throughout the year and tracked the 
progress of the action plan. 

■■ Confirmed the process to be followed for 
the 2016 review.

The Committee recommended the 
proposed action plan and 2016 Board 
objectives to the Board for approval. 
The Committee agreed and 
recommended the process for the 2016 
effectiveness review, which proceeded 
as recommended. 

Governance Changes to the Board's corporate 
governance framework following 
the implementation of the Senior 
Managers Regime in March 2016.

■■ Reviewed updates to Corporate 
Governance in Barclays and the Charter 
of Expectations following the 
implementation of the Senior Managers 
Regime in order to integrate the 
requirements into the existing corporate 
governance framework, applying 
particular focus to the updated individual 
role profiles.

Approved and recommended to the 
Board for approval the updated 
corporate governance documents 
and role profiles for key positions on  
the Board.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
80 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Nominations Committee report

In addition the Committee covered the following matters: 
■■ received a presentation from the PRA on its annual review of Barclays
■■ proposals for the 2016 Corporate Governance Report
■■ review of the Committee's effectiveness and its terms of reference. 

Appointment and re-election of Directors 
Board and Board Committee composition is a standing item for 
consideration at each Committee meeting. This includes the 
consideration of potential new non-executive Director appointments, 
both in respect of planned succession for known retirements and as a 
result of the ongoing review of the skills and experience needed on the 
Board in order for it to continue to operate effectively. 

The Committee frequently considers a skills matrix for the Board, which 
identifies the core competencies, skills, diversity and experience required 
for the Board to deliver its strategic aims and govern the Group 
effectively. Each attribute identified in the skills matrix has a target 
weighting attached to it and these are regularly updated over time to 
reflect the needs of the Group. The Committee reviews the skills matrix 
when considering a new appointment to the Board, as well as reviewing 
the current and expected Board and Board Committee composition. This 
helps to determine a timeline for proposed appointments to the Board.

When recruiting a new non-executive Director the specific skills that are 
needed are identified, for example, an individual with international 
experience, or recent history serving on a particular board committee. 
The Charter of Expectations contains the key competencies and skills 
expected of non-executive Directors, and these, in addition to other 
details such as expected time commitment, will be included in an 
individual specification. The Committee as a whole then considers 
curriculum vitae and references for potential candidates. Any candidates 
who are shortlisted will be interviewed by members of the Committee 
and, if applicable, key shareholders and Barclays' regulators may be 
asked to provide feedback on the proposed appointment. The Board is 
updated on the progress of the recruitment and interview process, and 
any feedback from the interviews is provided to the Board alongside a 
recommendation for appointment.

Executive search firms Egon Zehnder, JCA Group and MWM Consulting 
were instructed to assist with the search for non-executive Directors 
during 2016. None of these firms has any other connection to Barclays, 
other than to provide recruitment services. Open advertising for Board 
positions was not used in 2016, as the Committee believes that targeted 
recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting for Board positions. All of the 
firms used for non-executive Director recruitment have signed up to the 
voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, which include 
measures designed to improve gender diversity on boards.

In 2016, Barclays announced the appointment of Mary Francis as 
non-executive Director and she joined the Board with effect from 
1 October 2016. As previously reported, Mary has extensive board level 
experience across a range of industries. Wendy Lucas-Bull stood down 
from the Board in March 2016 following the announcement of Barclays' 
intention to reduce its shareholding in Barclays Africa Group Limited, and 
Frits van Paasschen did not stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM. 

The Directors in office at the end of 2016 were subject to an 
effectiveness review, as described on page 81. Based on the results of 
the review the Board accepted the view of the Committee that each 
Director proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they 
each demonstrated the level of commitment required in connection with 
their role on the Board and the needs of the business. Diane de Saint 
Victor and Steve Thieke have each signalled their intention to retire from 
the Board at the 2017 AGM.

Diversity statement 
The Board has had regard to two important publications that were 
issued in 2016: the Hampton-Alexander Review recommendations to 
improve gender balance in FTSE leadership teams and the Parker Review 
recommendations on the ethnic diversity of UK boards. The Committee 
reported last year that the Board had exceeded its target of 25% female 
Directors by the end of 2015 and had set a new target of 33% gender 
Board representation by 2020. This target has been formally reflected in 
the Board Diversity Policy, which can be found online at home.barclays/
corporategovernance. Below Board level the Group met its 2016 target 
of 24% female senior leaders. The Committee is mindful that the Group 
Executive Committee does not currently include any women, but is 
satisfied with the level of diversity across that Committee and with the 
percentage of women amongst the direct reports of Group Executive 
Committee members (25% at the end of 2016). To broaden the scope of 
the perspectives and contributions made to Group Executive Committee 
meetings an initiative was implemented by the Group Chief Executive 
during 2016 to create one ex-officio position on the Committee, with 
each appointee serving for a four-month rotation. The first appointee 
was Kathryn McLeland, Head of Investor Relations. With regard to ethnic 
diversity, the Board considers that Barclays is currently well-positioned in 
terms of representation at Board level and also at Group Executive 
Committee level when taking into account the Parker Review definition 
(being individuals of Black, East Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern 
or South Asian ethno-cultural backgrounds).

During 2016, the Committee received regular updates from the Global 
Head of Diversity and Inclusion covering the full spectrum of Barclays' 
diversity and inclusion agenda. For 2017, the Committee has requested 
additional information regarding social inclusion.

The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that there is 
diversity of gender, ethnicity, geography and business experience on the 
Board, while continuing to recommend all appointments based on merit 
in the context of the skills and experience required. The Barclays Board 
female diversity target is noted in the Board skills matrix, which identifies 
the core competencies and skills needed for an effective Board. When 
executive search firms are engaged to assist with the recruitment of 
a new Director diversity is identified as a key factor. In addition, the 
external Board evaluation considered diversity when assessing the 
effectiveness of the Board. 

More details on Barclays' diversity and inclusion strategy  
can be found on page 96

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 81

Review of Board and Board Committee effectiveness 
Each year the Board conducts an externally facilitated self-assessment of 
the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and the individual 
Directors. Independent Board Evaluation facilitated the effectiveness 
review for 2015 and was engaged to conduct the 2016 review, which 
built on the findings of the 2015 review, including assessing the progress 
of the actions that had been identified. Independent Board Evaluation 
is an independent external consultancy with no other connection to 
Barclays. In order to ensure that high quality feedback was received, 
Ffion Hague, the consultant, based the review on face-to-face interviews 
with the Directors. The Directors received an agenda prior to their 
interview, which focused on areas for improvement identified in the 2015 
effectiveness review as well as any new issues that had emerged since 
that review was conducted. In addition to the interviews, Ffion Hague 
attended Board and Board Committee meetings as an observer, met 
with members of the Group Executive Committee, the Company 
Secretary and other members of senior management, along with 
seeking feedback from external stakeholders. 

In December 2016, Independent Board Evaluation presented a report 
to the Board on the findings of the effectiveness review. In addition, the 
Chairman was provided with a report and feedback on the performance 
of each of the Directors, and the Senior Independent Director received a 
report on the Chairman. Board Committee chairmen received individual 
reports on the performance of the Board Committees. 

Following consideration of the findings of the 2016 effectiveness review 
the Directors remain satisfied that the Board and each of the Board 
Committees are operating effectively. Progress relative to 2015 was good 
and the Board remains committed to making further progress to ensure 
that it is considered to be at the top of the range of effectiveness for 
a FTSE100 company. Following the conclusion of the review the Board 
Nominations Committee, with support from the Company Secretary, 
prepared a detailed action planning document. An overview of actions 
that were identified to help the Board to maintain and improve its 
effectiveness have been disclosed on the following pages 82 and 83, 
as well as an update on the actions taken following the 2015 
effectiveness review. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
82 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
What we did in 2016 
Board Nominations Committee report

Review of Board and Board Committee Effectiveness 

Board priorities Leveraging Board experience  
in support of executives

Greater awareness  
of Board Committee work

Improvements to the  
Board appointment process 

Director induction Dealing more strategically  
with global regulation

2015 findings
To ensure that the Board agenda is 
optimised, including time for ‘blue-sky' 
discussion of major risks.

2015 findings
To continue to ensure that all non-executive 
Directors have the opportunity to contribute 
to strategic debate. 

2015 findings
To continue to raise awareness across all 
Board members of the significant issues 
considered by Board Committees and to 
continue to refine the remit and scope of 
the Board Reputation Committee.

2015 findings
To continue to assess the skills and 
experience needed on the Board and to 
ensure that Board composition is balanced 
between UK and international members.

To enhance Board succession planning, 
particularly in respect of key roles. 

2015 findings
To enhance the Board training and 
induction programme, with particular focus 
on the training needs of Board members 
from outside the financial services sector. 

2015 findings
To continue to provide opportunities for 
Board members to provide early input to 
thinking on major issues and decisions. 

Actions taken in 2016 
In early 2016, a set of Board objectives was 
agreed in order to track progress against 
the Board's priorities.

Board agendas were updated to allow more 
time for discussion of strategic options. 
This was also a key focus for the 2016 
Board Strategy Offsite.

Board dinners were used for more 
free-ranging discussions, with suggested 
topics notified to the Directors in advance. 
No decisions were taken or required as part 
of these discussions, which were used to 
inform the broader debate at subsequent 
Board meetings.

Actions taken in 2016 
John McFarlane and Sir Gerry Grimstone 
took responsibility for ensuring that all 
non-executive Directors were involved in 
strategic decision making. 

In the course of the year, it was decided that 
partnering non-executive Directors with 
members of the Group Executive Committee 
would not be taken forward.  However, the 
experience of non-executive Directors has 
been leveraged as appropriate, e.g. the 
appointments of Steve Thieke and Diane 
Schueneman to the board of Barclays US IHC. 
Non-executive Directors continue to make 
a valuable contribution to the Board and 
its Committees. 

Actions taken in 2016 
All Directors have access to Board 
Committee meeting papers and minutes, 
and are reminded that they may attend 
Board Committee meetings whether or not 
they are members. Some Directors made 
use of this option during 2016. Board 
Committee Chairmen have continued to 
report to the Board on specific matters 
discussed at Board Committee meetings.

During 2016, Sir Gerry Grimstone, chairman 
of the Board Reputation Committee, took 
action to define and focus its role and 
scope more clearly, including implementing 
new reporting initiatives such as the 
development of dashboard reports.

Actions taken in 2016 
During 2016, a revised Board succession 
plan and updated skills matrix were 
presented to the Board Nominations 
Committee. The plan addresses immediate 
needs as well as longer-term requirements 
to take account of the tenure of  
non-executive Directors. 

The succession plan included succession  
to key roles and considered the optimum 
size of the Board. The future composition 
of the Board post-Structural Reform has 
also been considered.

In addition, the Board received updates 
on executive talent management and 
succession planning during 2016. 

Actions taken in 2016 
The Board training programme for 2016 
included specific sessions aimed primarily 
at non-executive Directors without a 
financial services background. Details of 
the training programme offered during 
2016 can be found on page 87. 

Actions taken in 2016 
The Board's agenda during 2016 focused 
more on strategic issues, including the 
capital and liquidity impacts of Structural 
Reform. For a description of the Board's 
activity in 2016, including the input 
provided to management on the 
formulation of Group strategy and other 
significant decisions, see pages 56 to 57.

2016 findings 
Create regular broad-based risk oversight 
sessions for the Board to allow Directors 
to look across the risk spectrum.

Schedule a debate on the role of the Board 
and non-executive Directors and link the 
conclusions to revised Board objectives to 
help focus the Board's agenda over the 
coming year.

2016 findings 
The Board effectiveness review reported on 
positive and constructive relations between 
the Board and the new management team. 

2016 findings 
Continue to optimise the information flow 
between Directors in the run-up to 
Structural Reform in 2018.

Consider agreeing common values for the 
Group and the banking subsidiary boards 
in the new structure.

For 2017 this finding will be renamed as 
‘Optimise communication and 
collaboration between directors, boards 
and committees.'

2016 findings 
Continue to refine the Board skills matrix to 
ensure it aligns with the Group's strategy 
and informs the succession plan for key 
Board roles. Implement more regular 
reporting to the Board on potential 
non-executive Directors under 
consideration.

2016 findings 
Continue to enhance the Director induction 
with a focus on providing broader 
governance training to anyone who has 
not previously served on a UK plc board.

2016 findings 
Review reporting arrangements on strategy 
implementation and review the KPIs or 
dashboard reports for key initiatives. 

For 2017 this finding will be renamed as 
‘Optimise reporting to the Board on 
strategy and execution priorities.'

Actions to be taken in 2017
We will continue to identify opportunities 
for more free-ranging discussion of risk, 
including as part of the annual Board 
strategy session. 

The role of the Group Board and Group 
non-executive Directors will be reviewed 
in the context of Structural Reform.

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Board will continue to support and 
challenge executive management, with 
particular focus on execution of strategy. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Chairman will continue to use his 
meetings with non-executive Directors 
ahead of Board meetings to ensure that 
all non-executive Directors are briefed on 
current issues. 

Opportunities for the Board (and, in due 
course, the banking subsidiary boards) to 
spend more time together around Board 
meetings will be identified. 

Once the subsidiary boards are established, 
a common set of values will be agreed to 
supplement the Governance Guiding 
Principles that are already in place. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Board skills matrix will be kept under 
review, with separate skills matrices to be  
agreed with the respective chairmen of the 
banking subsidiaries. The Group Board 
succession plan will continue to be 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Board 
Nominations Committee and the Chairman 
will keep current Board members regularly 
updated on recruitment plans and 
potential candidates.

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Director induction programme will be 
reviewed and refreshed to factor in tailored 
governance training for new Directors.   
This is also being extended to directors 
of the new banking subsidiaries. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The form and content of reporting to the 
Board will be reviewed and refreshed by 
management to ensure that the Board is 
provided with appropriate management 
information on strategy and execution 
priorities. Specific topics that the Board 
indicated that it wished to review have been 
factored into the 2017 Board agenda.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 83

Review of Board and Board Committee Effectiveness 

Board priorities Leveraging Board experience  
in support of executives

Greater awareness  
of Board Committee work

Improvements to the  
Board appointment process 

Director induction Dealing more strategically  
with global regulation

2015 findings
To ensure that the Board agenda is 
optimised, including time for ‘blue-sky' 
discussion of major risks.

2015 findings
To continue to ensure that all non-executive 
Directors have the opportunity to contribute 
to strategic debate. 

2015 findings
To continue to raise awareness across all 
Board members of the significant issues 
considered by Board Committees and to 
continue to refine the remit and scope of 
the Board Reputation Committee.

2015 findings
To continue to assess the skills and 
experience needed on the Board and to 
ensure that Board composition is balanced 
between UK and international members.

To enhance Board succession planning, 
particularly in respect of key roles. 

2015 findings
To enhance the Board training and 
induction programme, with particular focus 
on the training needs of Board members 
from outside the financial services sector. 

2015 findings
To continue to provide opportunities for 
Board members to provide early input to 
thinking on major issues and decisions. 

Actions taken in 2016 
In early 2016, a set of Board objectives was 
agreed in order to track progress against 
the Board's priorities.

Board agendas were updated to allow more 
time for discussion of strategic options. 
This was also a key focus for the 2016 
Board Strategy Offsite.

Board dinners were used for more 
free-ranging discussions, with suggested 
topics notified to the Directors in advance. 
No decisions were taken or required as part 
of these discussions, which were used to 
inform the broader debate at subsequent 
Board meetings.

Actions taken in 2016 
John McFarlane and Sir Gerry Grimstone 
took responsibility for ensuring that all 
non-executive Directors were involved in 
strategic decision making. 

In the course of the year, it was decided that 
partnering non-executive Directors with 
members of the Group Executive Committee 
would not be taken forward.  However, the 
experience of non-executive Directors has 
been leveraged as appropriate, e.g. the 
appointments of Steve Thieke and Diane 
Schueneman to the board of Barclays US IHC. 
Non-executive Directors continue to make 
a valuable contribution to the Board and 
its Committees. 

Actions taken in 2016 
All Directors have access to Board 
Committee meeting papers and minutes, 
and are reminded that they may attend 
Board Committee meetings whether or not 
they are members. Some Directors made 
use of this option during 2016. Board 
Committee Chairmen have continued to 
report to the Board on specific matters 
discussed at Board Committee meetings.

During 2016, Sir Gerry Grimstone, chairman 
of the Board Reputation Committee, took 
action to define and focus its role and 
scope more clearly, including implementing 
new reporting initiatives such as the 
development of dashboard reports.

Actions taken in 2016 
During 2016, a revised Board succession 
plan and updated skills matrix were 
presented to the Board Nominations 
Committee. The plan addresses immediate 
needs as well as longer-term requirements 
to take account of the tenure of  
non-executive Directors. 

The succession plan included succession  
to key roles and considered the optimum 
size of the Board. The future composition 
of the Board post-Structural Reform has 
also been considered.

In addition, the Board received updates 
on executive talent management and 
succession planning during 2016. 

Actions taken in 2016 
The Board training programme for 2016 
included specific sessions aimed primarily 
at non-executive Directors without a 
financial services background. Details of 
the training programme offered during 
2016 can be found on page 87. 

Actions taken in 2016 
The Board's agenda during 2016 focused 
more on strategic issues, including the 
capital and liquidity impacts of Structural 
Reform. For a description of the Board's 
activity in 2016, including the input 
provided to management on the 
formulation of Group strategy and other 
significant decisions, see pages 56 to 57.

2016 findings 
Create regular broad-based risk oversight 
sessions for the Board to allow Directors 
to look across the risk spectrum.

Schedule a debate on the role of the Board 
and non-executive Directors and link the 
conclusions to revised Board objectives to 
help focus the Board's agenda over the 
coming year.

2016 findings 
The Board effectiveness review reported on 
positive and constructive relations between 
the Board and the new management team. 

2016 findings 
Continue to optimise the information flow 
between Directors in the run-up to 
Structural Reform in 2018.

Consider agreeing common values for the 
Group and the banking subsidiary boards 
in the new structure.

For 2017 this finding will be renamed as 
‘Optimise communication and 
collaboration between directors, boards 
and committees.'

2016 findings 
Continue to refine the Board skills matrix to 
ensure it aligns with the Group's strategy 
and informs the succession plan for key 
Board roles. Implement more regular 
reporting to the Board on potential 
non-executive Directors under 
consideration.

2016 findings 
Continue to enhance the Director induction 
with a focus on providing broader 
governance training to anyone who has 
not previously served on a UK plc board.

2016 findings 
Review reporting arrangements on strategy 
implementation and review the KPIs or 
dashboard reports for key initiatives. 

For 2017 this finding will be renamed as 
‘Optimise reporting to the Board on 
strategy and execution priorities.'

Actions to be taken in 2017
We will continue to identify opportunities 
for more free-ranging discussion of risk, 
including as part of the annual Board 
strategy session. 

The role of the Group Board and Group 
non-executive Directors will be reviewed 
in the context of Structural Reform.

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Board will continue to support and 
challenge executive management, with 
particular focus on execution of strategy. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Chairman will continue to use his 
meetings with non-executive Directors 
ahead of Board meetings to ensure that 
all non-executive Directors are briefed on 
current issues. 

Opportunities for the Board (and, in due 
course, the banking subsidiary boards) to 
spend more time together around Board 
meetings will be identified. 

Once the subsidiary boards are established, 
a common set of values will be agreed to 
supplement the Governance Guiding 
Principles that are already in place. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Board skills matrix will be kept under 
review, with separate skills matrices to be  
agreed with the respective chairmen of the 
banking subsidiaries. The Group Board 
succession plan will continue to be 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Board 
Nominations Committee and the Chairman 
will keep current Board members regularly 
updated on recruitment plans and 
potential candidates.

Actions to be taken in 2017
The Director induction programme will be 
reviewed and refreshed to factor in tailored 
governance training for new Directors.   
This is also being extended to directors 
of the new banking subsidiaries. 

Actions to be taken in 2017
The form and content of reporting to the 
Board will be reviewed and refreshed by 
management to ensure that the Board is 
provided with appropriate management 
information on strategy and execution 
priorities. Specific topics that the Board 
indicated that it wished to review have been 
factored into the 2017 Board agenda.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
84 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
How we comply

UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)
As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange we apply the main 
principles of the Code and comply with the Code's provisions. A revised 
Code came into effect in 2016, applying to financial years beginning on 
or after 17 June 2016 and will apply to Barclays from 1 January 2017. 
Copies of the 2014 and 2016 Codes can be found at www.frc.org.uk. 
Corporate Governance in Barclays contains a full description of our 
corporate governance practices and is available online at home.barclays/
corporategovernance. For the year ended 31 December 2016, and at 
the date of this report, we complied with the 2014 Code except as 
disclosed below:
■■ Provision E.2.3 of the Code requires that the Chairman should arrange 

for all Directors to attend the AGM. While such arrangements were 
made, Steve Thieke was unable to attend the 2016 AGM owing to 
other commitments in the US, where he is based. The Chairman 
and all Board Committee Chairmen were available at the AGM to 
answer questions. 

The changes made in the 2016 Code were concerned with the relevance 
of the experience of the audit committee and with audit re-tendering, 
both of which are covered in this report. 

Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules
By virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the 
Annual Report we comply with the corporate governance statement 
requirements of the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. 
Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant 
to DTR7.2.6 can be found on pages 91 to 94.

New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow UK corporate governance 
practices instead of those applied in the US. However, any significant 
variations must be explained in Barclays' 20-F filing, which can be 
accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commission's EDGAR 
database or via our website, home.barclays. 

Leadership
The Role of the Board 
The Board of Directors is responsible for promoting the highest 
standards of corporate governance in Barclays. We act in a way that 
we consider promotes the success of Barclays for the benefit of 
shareholders as a whole, and are accountable to the shareholders for 
creating and delivering sustainable value. It is our responsibility as the 
Board to ensure that management not only delivers on short-term 
objectives, but promotes the long-term growth of Barclays. The existing 
corporate governance framework embeds the right culture, values and 
behaviours throughout the Group and supports our role in determining 
strategic objectives and policies. 

In addition to setting strategy and overseeing its implementation, we are 
also responsible for ensuring that management maintains an effective 
system of internal control. An effective system of internal control should 
provide assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial 
controls and compliance with law and regulation. In meeting this 
responsibility we consider what is appropriate for the Group's business 
and reputation, the materiality of financial and other risks and the 
relevant costs and benefits of implementing controls. 

The Board is the decision-making body for matters that, owing to their 
strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences, are 
considered significant to the Group. A formal schedule of powers 
reserved to the Board ensures that our control of these key decisions 
is maintained. A summary of the matters reserved to the Board can be 
found at home.barclays/corporategovernance. It includes the approval 
of appointments to the Board, Barclays' strategy, financial statements, 
capital expenditure and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals. 

Board Governance framework
The main Board Committees are the Board Audit Committee, the Board 
Nominations Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee, the Board 
Reputation Committee and the Board Risk Committee. Under the authority 
of our Articles of Association, each Board Committee has had specific 
responsibilities delegated to it by the Board. Further information on the role 
and activities of each of the Board Committees can be found in this report 
and in their individual terms of reference, which have been approved by the 
Board and are available at home.barclays/corporategovernance. 

In addition, the Regulatory Investigations Committee was formed in 
2012 and focuses on providing Board-level oversight of regulatory 
investigations. In 2016 the Committee met five times. John McFarlane 
is the Committee Chairman and the other Committee members are Mike 
Ashley, Sir Gerry Grimstone, Diane de Saint Victor and Jes Staley.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 85

Barclays Board
The Board is responsible for creating and 
sustaining shareholder value, through setting
and overseeing the implementation of 
Barclays' strategy

Board Governance framework

Board Nominations
Committee
■ Reviews the composition 

of the Board.

■ Recommends the 
appointment of new 
Directors.

■ Considers succession 
plans for the Chairman 
and Group Chief Executive. 

■ Oversees the annual Board 
effectiveness review.

Board Remuneration
Committee
■ Sets principles and 

parameters of 
remuneration for Barclays.

■ Considers and approves 
remuneration for Executive 
Directors and senior 
executives.

■ Governs employee share 
schemes.

Board Reputation
Committee
■ Considers Barclays' 

conduct and reputational 
risk issues and exposures.

■ Reviews and approves 
Barclays' overall citizenship 
strategy.

■ Oversees Barclays' 
approach to customer 
and regulatory matters.

Board Risk 
Committee
■ Monitors and 

recommends financial and 
operational risk appetite.

■ Monitors the financial and 
operational risk profile.

■ Reviews limits for types 
of financial and 
operational risk.

Board Audit 
Committee
■ Reviews accounting 

policies and financial 
reports.

■ Monitors the internal 
control environment.

■ Considers the adequacy 
and scope of the internal 
and external audit.

See page 58 
for further 
information.

See page 68 
for further 
information.

See page 73 
for further 
information.

See page 77 
for further 
information.

See page 99 
for further 
information.

Roles on the Board 
Executive and non-executive Directors share the same duties and are 
subject to the same constraints but, in line with the principles of the 
Code, a clear division of responsibilities has been established. It is the 
responsibility of the Chairman to lead and manage the work of the 
Board, while responsibility for the day-to-day management of Barclays 
has been delegated to the Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief 
Executive is supported in this role by the Group Executive Committee. 
Further information on membership of the Group Executive Committee 
can be found on page 53. 

As a Board we have set out our expectations of each Director in Barclays' 
Charter of Expectations. This includes role profiles and the behaviours 
and competencies required for each role on the Board, namely the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, non-
executive Directors, executive Directors and Committee Chairmen. 
The Board Nominations Committee reviews the Charter of Expectations 
annually to ensure it remains relevant and up-to-date. It is published on 
home.barclays/corporategovernance to ensure that there is complete 
transparency of the standards we set for ourselves.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
86 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
How we comply

Attendance
As members of the Board of Directors we are expected to attend each 
Board meeting and in 2016 we attended both scheduled and additional 
Board meetings, as disclosed in the table below. The Chairman met 
privately with the non-executive Directors ahead of each scheduled 
Board meeting, and if, owing to exceptional circumstances, a Director 
was not able to attend a Board meeting they ensured that their views 
were made known to the Chairman in advance of the meeting. 

Board attendance Independent

Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 

attend

 Scheduled 
meetings 
attended

% 
attendance 

Additional 
meetings 
eligible to 

attend 

Additional 
meetings
 attended

% 
attendance 

Group Chairman
John McFarlane On appointment 8 8 100 2 2 100

Executive Directors
Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 8 8 100 2 2 100
Jes Staley Executive Director 8 8 100 2 2 100

Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley Independent 8 8 100 2 1 50
Tim Breedon Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100
Mary Francis Independent 2 2 100 0 0 n/a
Crawford Gillies Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100
Sir Gerry Grimstone Senior Independent Director 8 8 100 2 2 100
Reuben Jeffery III† Independent 8 7 88 2 1 50
Dambisa Moyo Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100
Diane de Saint Victor† Independent 8 7 88 2 2 100
Diane Schueneman Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100
Steve Thieke Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100

Former Directors
Wendy Lucas-Bull Non-independent 1 1 100 1 1 100
Frits van Paasschen Independent 3 3 100 1 1 100

Secretary
Claire Davies 1 1 100 0 0 n/a

Former Secretary
Lawrence Dickinson 7 7 100 2 2 100

† Unable to attend one scheduled meeting owing to prior commitments.

Board Committee cross-membership

Board Audit  
Committee

Board Nominations 
Committee

Board Remunerations 
Committee

Board Reputation 
Committee

Board Risk  
Committee

3 3 1 1

Board Reputation 
Committee

1 2 2

Board Remuneration 
Committee

2 2

Board Nominations 
Committee

3

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 87

Effectiveness
Composition of the Board 
In line with the requirements of the Code a majority of the Board are 
independent non-executive Directors. The Board currently comprises 
a Chairman, who was independent on appointment, two executive 
Directors and ten non-executive Directors. We consider the 
independence of our non-executive Directors annually, using the 
independence criteria set out in the Code and by reviewing performance 
against behaviours that we have identified as essential in order to be 
considered independent. The independence criteria can be found in 
Corporate Governance in Barclays at home.barclays/
corporategovernance. 

The Board Nominations Committee considers Board succession planning 
and regularly reviews the composition of the Board and the Board 
Committees to ensure that there is an appropriate balance and diversity 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge. The size of the Board 
is not fixed and may be revised from time to time to reflect the changing 
needs of the business and the Board Nominations Committee will 
consider the balance of skills and experience of current Directors when 
considering a proposed appointment. 

Each year we carry out an effectiveness review in order to evaluate 
our performance as a Board, as well as the performance of each of the 
Board Committees and individual Directors. This annual review assesses 
whether each of us continues to discharge our respective duties and 
responsibilities effectively and is considered when deciding whether 
individual Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the 
AGM. More information on the 2016 Board effectiveness review can be 
found on page 81. 

Our biographies containing our relevant skills and experience, Board 
Committee membership and other principal appointments can be found 
on pages 51 and 52. Details of changes to the Board in 2016 and year to 
date are disclosed on page 91. 

The service contracts for the executive Directors and the letters of 
appointment for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are available 
for inspection at our registered office. 

Time commitment
It is expected that in order to discharge our responsibilities effectively 
we will each allocate sufficient time to our role on the Board. We are 
expected to attend, and to be well prepared for, all Board and Board 
Committee meetings, as well as making time to understand the 
business, meet with executives and regulators, and complete ongoing 
training. As stated in our Charter of Expectations, time commitment is 
agreed with each non-executive Director on an individual basis. 
Disclosed below is the average expected time commitment for the role 
of non-executive Director and the other non-executive positions on the 
Board. For these additional positions there is an expectation that, in 
order to effectively fulfil extra responsibilities, additional time 
commitment is required. 

Role Expected time commitment
Chairman 80% of a full time position
Deputy Chairman At least 0.5 days a week
Senior Independent Director As required to fulfil the role
Non-executive Director 30 days a year (membership of one Board 

Committee included, increasing to 40 days a year 
if a member of two Board Committees)

Committee Chairmen At least 60 days a year (including non-executive 
Director time commitment)

The Chairman must commit to expend whatever time is necessary to 
fulfil his duties and, while this is expected to be equivalent to 80% of a 
full time position, his Chairmanship of the Group and leadership of the 
Board has priority over other business commitments. In exceptional 
circumstances we are all expected to commit significantly more time 
to our work on the Board.

Induction
On appointment to the Board all Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction which is tailored to the new Director's individual requirements. 
The induction schedule is designed to quickly provide the new Director 
with an understanding of how the Group works and the key issues that 
it faces. The Company Secretary consults the Chairman when designing 
an induction schedule, giving consideration to the particular needs of 
the new Director. When a Director is joining a Board Committee the 
schedule includes an induction to the operation of that committee. 

On completion of the induction programme the Director should have 
sufficient knowledge and understanding of the nature of the business, 
and the opportunities and challenges facing Barclays, to enable them to 
effectively contribute to strategic discussions and oversight of the Group.

In 2016, Sir Gerry Grimstone and Mary Francis both received induction 
programmes on joining the Board. In line with normal practice, they met 
with the Company Secretary, the current non-executive Directors and 
members of the Group Executive Committee and the Senior Leadership 
Group.  In addition, Sir Gerry Grimstone met with Sir Michael Rake, the 
outgoing Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, and former 
Chairman of the Board Reputation Committee. 

Training and development
In order to continue to contribute effectively to Board and Board 
Committee meetings we are regularly provided with the opportunity 
to take part in ongoing training and development. As part of our annual 
performance review with the Chairman we discuss any particular 
development needs that can be met through either formal training 
or meeting with a particular senior executive. 

The Company Secretary organises a formal training schedule for the 
year, covering both Board and Board Committee training requirements, 
to ensure that our insight into the Group's business and awareness of 
the external environment in which we operate continues after our formal 
induction schedules have been completed. 

During 2016, we attended briefings on the following subjects:
■■ capital and liquidity (including regulatory targets and constraints)
■■ the Federal Reserve's CCAR exercise 
■■ Group Resilience 
■■ cyber-risk 
■■ a presentation from Compliance and Regulatory Relations on the 

regulatory expectations of Directors and the PRA's threshold 
conditions 

■■ a briefing from Finance and Risk on the impact of IFRS9
■■ an accounting update presented by KPMG
■■ an update on the implementation of the Senior Managers Regime
■■ strategic planning and crisis management plans ahead of the EU 

Referendum
■■ internal briefings on Structural Reform.

These briefing sessions were supplemented by written material,  
such as a briefing note on the implementation of the Market Abuse 
Regulation in the UK. 

In addition, site visits were arranged to Barclays UK and Cards US 
operations, as well as the regular business visits and engagements that 
we may undertake. This included the attendance of our Board Audit 
Committee Chairman and Board Risk Committee Chairman at US IHC 
board committee meetings at Barclays' offices in New York.

Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of 
Association the Board has the authority to authorise conflicts of interest. 
Directors are required to declare any potential or actual conflicts of 
interest that could interfere with their ability to act in the best interests 
of the Group. The Company Secretary maintains a conflicts register, 
which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any 
Board authorisation of the conflict. The authorisations are for an 
indefinite period but are reviewed annually by the Board Nominations 
Committee. The Board retains the power to vary or terminate the 
authorisation at any time.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
88 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
How we comply

Information provided to the Board
The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out in our Charter of 
Expectations, confirms his responsibility for ensuring that members 
of the Board receive accurate, timely and high-quality information. In 
particular, we require information about Barclays' performance to enable 
us to take sound decisions, monitor effectively and provide advice to 
promote the success of the Company. Working in collaboration with 
the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good 
governance and consults Directors to ensure that good information 
flows exist and that the Board receives the information it requires 
in order to be effective. 

Throughout the year both the executive Directors and senior executives 
keep the Board informed of key developments in the business through 
regular reports and updates. These are in addition to the presentations 
that the Board and Board Committees receive as part of their formal 
meetings. Directors are able to seek independent and professional 
advice at Barclays' expense, if required, to enable Directors to fulfil their 
obligations as members of the Board. 

Accountability 
Risk management and internal control 
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that management maintains 
an effective system of risk management and internal control and for 
assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, 
evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal 
control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without 
exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage. 
Barclays has an overarching framework that sets out the Group's 
approach to internal governance, The Barclays Guide, which establishes 
the mechanisms and processes by which the Board directs the 
organisation, through setting the tone and expectations from the top, 
delegating its authority and assessing compliance.

A key component of The Barclays Guide is the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF). The purpose of the ERMF is to 
identify and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to 
achieving the Group's strategic objectives and to provide reasonable 
assurance that internal controls are effective. The key elements of 
the Group's system of internal control, which is aligned to the 
recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission, Internal Control – Integrated Framework 
(2013 COSO), are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to each 
of the Group's Principal and Key Risks. As well as incorporating our 
internal requirements, these reflect material Group-wide legal and 
regulatory requirements relating to internal control and assurance.

Effectiveness of internal controls
Key controls are assessed on a regular basis for both design and 
operating effectiveness. Issues arising out of business risk and control 
assessments and other internal and external sources are examined 
to identify pervasive themes. Where appropriate, control issues are 
reported to the Board Audit Committee (BAC). In addition, regular 
reports are made to the BAC by management, BIA and the Finance, 
Compliance and Legal functions covering, in particular, financial 
controls, compliance and other operational controls.

Risk management and internal control framework 
The ERMF is the Group's Internal Control Framework. It is refreshed 
annually and has been substantially revised during 2016. The BAC 
receives quarterly reports relating to the effectiveness of the Control 
Environment covering all risks and controls including financial, 
operational and compliance risk. 

The BAC formally reviews the system of internal control and risk 
management annually. Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 
and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control that 
provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all 
controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance 
with laws and regulations. Processes are in place for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group in 
accordance with the ‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control 
and Related Financial and Business Reporting' published by the Financial 
Reporting Council.

The review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and 
internal control is achieved through a four-step approach which is 
centred on reviewing the effectiveness of The Barclays Guide and its 
component parts:

1. Governance Risk & Control meetings of the Business and Functional 
Executive Committees monitor, review and challenge the effective 
operation of key risk management and control processes, including 
the results of audits and reviews undertaken by BIA (which include 
assessments of the Control Environment and Management Control 
Approach) and examinations and assessments undertaken by our 
primary regulators, on an ongoing basis as part of the system of risk 
management and internal control. The remediation of issues identified 
within the Control Environment is regularly monitored by 
management and the BAC.

2. Testing of the Governance Risk and Control meetings held within the 
Executive Committees provides assurance that the committees are 
effectively overseeing the Control Environment and associated risk 
management and internal control processes.

3. The owners of the key governance processes which comprise 
The Barclays Guide undertake a review to confirm that processes 
have been implemented.

4. The annual review of the system of risk management and internal control 
brings together the results of the activities completed in steps 1 to 3 to 
ensure that each of the key processes has been effectively reviewed. 

Regular reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group level 
significance. The Board Risk Committee and the Board Reputation 
Committee examine reports covering the Principal Risks (Credit Risk, 
Market risk, Capital Risk, Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk and Conduct 
Risk) as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk 
appetite. Further details of risk management procedures and potential 
risk factors are given in the Risk review and risk management sections 
on pages 136 to 162. 

Controls over financial reporting 
A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to support 
the approval of the Group's financial statements. The Legal and 
Technical Review Committee is responsible for examining the Group's 
financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject 
to adequate verification and comply with applicable standards and 
legislation. The Committee reports its conclusions to the Disclosure 
Committee. The Disclosure Committee examines the content and 
accuracy of the disclosures and reports its conclusions to the Board 
Audit Committee which debates its conclusions and provides further 
challenge. Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves results 
announcements and the Annual Report, and ensures that appropriate 
disclosures have been made. This governance process ensures that both 
management and the Board are given sufficient opportunity to debate 
and challenge the Group's financial statements and other significant 
disclosures before they are made public.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 89

Management's report on internal control over financial reporting 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial 
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal 
executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). Internal control over financial reporting includes policies 
and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and 
dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the 
respective Directors; and provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or 
disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.

Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent 
limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are 
subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management has assessed internal control over financial reporting as of 
31 December 2016. In making its assessment, management has utilised 
the criteria set forth by the 2013 COSO framework. Management 
concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control over 
financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2016. Our 
independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report 
on the Group's internal control over financial reporting, which is set 
out on page 276.

The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject 
to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas. Further information 
on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under 
Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review section on pages  
229 to 236.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting 
There have been no changes in the Group's internal control over financial 
reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report which 
have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the 
Group's internal control over financial reporting.

Remuneration
The Board has delegated responsibility for the consideration and 
approval of the remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, executive 
Directors, other senior executives and certain Group employees to the 
Board Remuneration Committee. The Board as a whole, with the 
non-executive Directors abstaining, considers annually the fees paid 
to non-executive Directors. Information on the activities of the Board 
Remuneration Committee in 2016 can be found on pages 99 to 133 of 
the Directors' remuneration report, which forms part of the corporate 
governance statement. 

Stakeholder engagement 
Investor engagement
The Board is committed to promoting effective channels of 
communication with our shareholders and upholding good corporate 
governance as a means of building stronger and more engaged 
relationships with them. Our comprehensive Investor Relations 
engagement with the market helps us to understand investor views 
about Barclays, which are communicated regularly to the Board. Our 
shareholder communication guidelines, which underpin all investor 
engagement, are available on our website at home.barclays/
investorrelations.

Institutional investors
In 2016, our Investor Relations engagement with institutional investors 
took place throughout the year, both following our quarterly results as 
well as outside of the reporting cycle. This allowed the opportunity for 
existing and potential new investors to engage with Barclays regularly, 
promoting dialogue on longer-term strategic developments as well as 
on the recent financial performance of the Group.

The Directors, in conjunction with the senior executive team and 
Investor Relations, participated in varied forms of engagement, including 
investor meetings, seminars and conferences across many geographic 
locations, reflecting the diverse nature of our equity and debt 
institutional ownership. Divisional management also presented 
extensively to investors, promoting greater awareness and 
understanding of our operational businesses.

During 2016, discussions with investors were focused on the continued 
execution of our strategy, following the appointment of Jes Staley 
as Group Chief Executive, and the strategic update announced on 
1 March 2016. 

Investor meetings focused on corporate governance also took place 
throughout the year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, 
other Board representatives and the Company Secretary.

We held conference calls/webcasts for our quarterly results briefings 
and an in-person presentation for our 2015 full year results in March 
2016, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director. In addition, the Group Finance Director held a quarterly 
breakfast briefing for sellside analysts, with a transcript of the 
discussions uploaded to our website. For fixed income investors we 
held conference calls at our full year and half year results, hosted by 
our Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.

The Investor Relations section of our website is an important 
communication channel that enables the effective distribution of 
information to the market in a clear and consistent manner. Executive 
management presentations, speeches and, where possible, webcast 
replays are uploaded to our website on a timely basis. In 2016, we also 
created an improved ‘About Barclays' factsheet, allowing investors the 
opportunity to understand Barclays' strategy and key financial metrics  
at a glance. We also continued to provide short videos summarising  
the key messages in our results from our Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
90 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
How we comply

Private shareholders
During 2016, we continued to communicate with our private 
shareholders through our shareholder mailings. Shareholders can also 
choose to sign up to Shareview so that they receive information about 
Barclays and their shareholding directly by email. On a practical level, 
over 60,000 shareholders did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up 
(SNTU) cheque following the Rights Issue in September 2013. In 2016, 
we continued the tracing process to reunite these shareholders with 
their SNTU monies and any unclaimed dividends. By the end of 2016,  
we had returned over £1.65m to our shareholders in addition to the 
£2.2m returned in 2015. We also launched a Special Share Dealing 
Service in November 2016 aimed at shareholders with relatively small 
shareholdings for whom it might otherwise be uneconomical to deal. 
One option open to shareholders was to donate their sale proceeds to 
ShareGift. As a result of this initiative, more than £100,000 was donated. 

Our AGM
The Board and the senior executive team continue to consider our 
AGM as a key date in the diary. The AGM provides us with our main 
opportunity to engage with shareholders, particularly our private 
shareholders, on the key issues facing the Group and any questions they 
may have. A number of Directors, including the Chairman, were available 
for informal discussion either before or after the meeting. All resolutions 
proposed at the 2016 AGM, which were considered on a poll, were 
passed with votes for ranging from 86% to 99.9% of the total votes cast. 

The 2017 AGM will be held on Wednesday 10 May 2017 at the Royal 
Festival Hall in London. The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate 
document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before the AGM 
and also made available at home.barclays/agm. Voting on the 
resolutions will again be by poll and the results will be announced via 
the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website on the 
same day. We encourage any shareholders who are unable to attend 
on the day to vote in advance of the meeting via home.barclays/
investorrelations/vote or through Shareview (www.shareview.co.uk). 

Engagement timeline

Corporate Governance 
engagement ahead of 2016 AGM 

2015 full year results 
presentation and fixed income 
conference call/webcast

Analyst briefing on 
2015 results

Analyst briefing on 
2016 half year results

Analyst briefing on 
Q3 2016 results

Q3 2016 results conference 
call/webcast

Q4

Q3

Q2

Q1

2015 full year results 
announcement

Q1 2016 results conference 
call/webcast

Analyst briefing on 
Q1 2016 results

Q1 2016 results 
announcement

2016 AGM

2016 half year results 
announcement

Q3 2016 results 
announcement

Reporting events Stakeholder engagement

2016 half year results and 
fixed income conference 
call/webcast

Corporate Governance 
engagement ahead of 2017 AGM

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 91

Governance: Directors' report
Other statutory information 

The Directors present their report together 
with the audited accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2016. 
Other information that is relevant to the Directors' report, and which 
is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows:

Page

Employee involvement 95
Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 97
Financial instruments 299 to 321
Hedge accounting policy 284
Remuneration policy, including details of the 
remuneration of each Director and Directors' 
interests in shares

99 to 133

Corporate governance report 49 to 90
Risk review 136 to 236
Viability statement 41

Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4R  
can be found on the following pages:

Page

Long-term incentive schemes 111

Director emoluments 361
Allotment for cash of equity securities 342
Waiver of dividends 91

Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors 
to present a Strategic report in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. The information can be found on pages 1 to 48.

The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C(11) of the 
Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors' report, to include 
certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise be disclosed 
in this Directors' report.

An indication of likely future developments may be found in the 
Strategic report.

The particulars of important events affecting the Company since the 
financial year end can be found in the Strategic report and Note 29, 
Legal, competition and regulatory matters.

Profit and dividends 
Statutory profit after tax for 2016 was £2,828m (2015: £623m). The 
final dividend for 2016 of 2.0p per share will be paid on 5 April 2017 to 
shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close 
of business on 3 March 2017. With the interim dividend totalling 1.0p per 
ordinary share, paid in September 2016, the total distribution for 2016 is 
3.0p (2015: 6.5p) per ordinary share. The interim and final dividends for 
2016 amounted to £757m (2016: £1,081m).

As at 31 December 2016, the distributable reserves of Barclays PLC 
(the Parent Company) were £6,831m. As at 31 December 2016, the 
distributable reserves of Barclays Bank PLC were £25,834m. 

The nominee companies of certain Barclays' employee benefit trusts 
holding shares in Barclays in connection with the operation of the 
Company's share plans have lodged evergreen dividend waivers on 
shares held by them that have not been allocated to employees. The 
total amount of dividends waived during the year ended 31 December 
2016 was £2.6m (2015: £6.4m).

Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays by joining 
the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme (the Programme). At the 
Barclays 2013 AGM, shareholders approved the introduction of the 
Programme to replace the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The 
Programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully-paid 
ordinary shares in Barclays PLC instead of a cash dividend, without 
incurring dealing costs or stamp duty. 

Board of Directors 
The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their 
biographical details, are set out on pages 51 and 52 and are incorporated 
into this report by reference. Changes to Directors during the year are set 
out below. 

Name Role
Effective date of appointment/
resignation

Sir Gerald (Gerry) 
Grimstone

Non-executive Director Appointed 1 January 2016

Mary Francis Non-executive Director Appointed 1 October 2016
Wendy Lucas-Bull Non-executive Director Retired 1 March 2016
Frits van 
Paasschen

Non-executive Director Retired 28 April 2016

Appointment and retirement of Directors 
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Company's 
Articles of Association (the Articles), the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code), the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 

The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the 
shareholders. The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors  
or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors. Any such Director  
holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself/herself for 
re-election. The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should be subject to annual re-election and all Directors will 
stand for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM with the exception of 
Diane de Saint Victor and Steve Thieke.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
92 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
Other statutory information 

Directors' indemnities 
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of 
the Companies Act 2006) were in force during the course of the financial 
year ended 31 December 2016 for the benefit of the then Directors and, 
at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have 
incurred) in connection with their duties, powers or office. In addition, 
the Company maintains Directors' & Officers' Liability Insurance which 
gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.

Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions (as defined by section 
235 of the Companies Act 2006) were in force during the course of the 
financial year ended 31 December 2016 for the benefit of the then 
Directors, and at the date of this report are in force for the benefit of 
directors of Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the 
Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund. The directors of the Trustee are 
indemnified against liability incurred in connection with the company's 
activities as Trustee of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund. 

Similarly, qualifying pension scheme indemnities were in force during 
2016 for the benefit of directors of Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees 
Limited as Trustee of Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia Staff 
Pension Fund (1965), Barclays Capital International Pension Scheme 
(No.1), and Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits 
Scheme. The directors of the Trustee are indemnified against liability 
incurred in connection with the company's activities as Trustee of the 
schemes above. 

Political donations 
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, 
the rest of the EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any political 
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any 
independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure 
during the year.

In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, Barclays 
provides administrative support to a federal Political Action Committee 
(PAC) in the US funded by the voluntary political contributions of eligible 
employees. The PAC is not controlled by Barclays and all decisions 
regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are directed by a 
steering committee comprising employees eligible to contribute to the 
PAC. Contributions to political organisations reported by the PAC during 
the calendar year 2016 totalled $12,500 (2015: $79,500).

Environment 
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe 
we have the greatest potential to make a difference. We focus on 
managing our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon 
emissions; developing products and services to help enable the 
transition to a low-carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate 
change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large. 
We invest in improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset 
the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits. We 
also have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental 
and social risks associated with our lending practices, which is 
embedded into our Credit Risk processes. A governance structure is in 
place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers 
around issues of potential environmental and social risk. 

We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions that we are 
responsible for as set out by ‘The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors' Report) Regulations 2013'. We provide fuller disclosure on 
(i) financing solutions for the lower carbon economy, (ii) environmental 
risk management and (iii) management of our carbon and 
environmental footprint in the Barclays Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Supplement available on our website at  
home.barclays.com/citizenship.

Current 
reporting

yeara
2016

Previous 
reporting 

yearb 
2015

Previous 
reporting 

yearc
2014

Comparison 
yeard
2013

Global GHG 
emissions   
Total CO2e (tonnes)e 678,412 712,916 830,668  968,781
Scope 1 CO2e 
emissions (tonnes)f 46,571 56,642 49,994  58,176
Scope 2 CO2e 
emissions (tonnes)g 538,783 520,098 655,426  723,993
Scope 3 CO2e 
emissions (tonnes)h 93,059 136,176 125,248  186,612
Intensity ratioi

Total full time 
employees (FTE) 119,300 129,400 132,300 139,600
Total CO2e per FTE 
(tonnes) 5.69  5.51 6.28 6.94
Scope 2 market 
based emissions 
(tonnes)j 596,198

Notes
a 2016 Reporting Year covers Q4 2015 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2016. The carbon reporting year  

is not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors' report.
b 2015 Reporting Year covers Q4 2014 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2015. 
c 2014 Reporting Year covers Q4 2013 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2014. 
d 2013 Reporting Year covers Q4 2012 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2013.
e The methodology used to calculate our CO2e emissions is the operational control 

approach on reporting boundaries as defined by the World Resources Institute/World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol (GHG): A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. 
Where properties are covered by Barclays' consolidated financial statements but are 
leased to tenants who are invoiced for utilities, these emissions are not included in  
the Group GHG calculations. We also capture consumption from properties which are  
yet to be consolidated by Barclays and as such Barclays still is responsible for the 
utility cost. 

f Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles (from UK and 
South Africa only, which is the most material contributors). Fugitive emissions reported 
in Scope 1 for 2013 – 2016 cover emissions from Americas, Asia Pacific and South 
Africa. Scope 1 fugitive emissions excludes the UK while we amend our governance 
procedures in the UK. Business travel is reported in Scope 1. 

g Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use. Scope 2 
emissions are using location based emission factors. Please see note j below for Scope 
2 Market Based emissions. 

h Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel (global flights and ground 
transport from the UK and South Africa). From 2014 onwards car hire data covers the 
USA and India. Ground transportation data (excluding Scope 1 company cars) covers 
only countries where this type of transport is material and data is available.

i Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location based emission 
factors only. 

j Scope 2 Market Based emissions have been reported for 2016 only.

Research and development 
In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and 
services in each of its business divisions.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 93

Share capital 
Share capital structure
The Company has ordinary shares in issue. The Company's Articles also 
allow for the issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen preference 
shares (preference shares). No preference shares have been issued as at 
20 February 2017 (the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report). 
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued share 
capital as at 31 December 2016 and as at 20 February 2017 (the latest 
practicable date for inclusion in this report). Details of the movement 
in ordinary share capital during the year can be found in Note 31 
on page 342.

Voting
Every member who is present in person or represented at any general 
meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one vote on 
a show of hands. Every proxy present has one vote. The proxy will have 
one vote for and one vote against a resolution if he/she has been 
instructed to vote for or against the resolution by different members or 
in one direction by a member while another member has permitted the 
proxy discretion as to how to vote. On a poll, every member who is 
present or represented and who is entitled to vote has one vote for every 
share held. In the case of joint holders, only the vote of the senior holder 
(as determined by order in the share register) or his proxy may be 
counted. If any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to a member's 
shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share or exercise 
any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company unless the Board 
otherwise determine. If any member, or any other person appearing to 
be interested in any of the Company's ordinary shares, is served with a 
notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and does not 
supply the Company with the information required in the notice, then 
the Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct that that member shall 
not be entitled to attend or vote at any meeting of the Company. The 
Board may further direct that if the shares of the defaulting member 
represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that 
dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained 
by the Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no 
transfer of those shares shall be registered (other than certain specified 
‘excepted transfers'). A direction ceases to have effect seven days after 
the Company has received the information requested, or when the 
Company is notified that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant 
shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise 
determines.

Transfers 
Ordinary shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated form. 
Certificated ordinary shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or 
other form approved by the Secretary and executed by or on behalf of 
the transferor. Transfers of uncertificated ordinary shares shall be made 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and CREST Regulations.

The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly-paid ordinary 
shares or fully-paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the 
FCA. The Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of 
certificated ordinary shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at 
the prescribed place and accompanied by the share certificate(s) and 
such other evidence as reasonably required by the Board to evidence 
right to transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares only, and it is in 
favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees 
(except in the case of executors or trustees of a member).

In accordance with the provisions of Section 84 of the Small Business, 
Enterprise and Employment Act 2015, preference shares may only be 
issued in registered form. Preference shares shall be transferred in 
writing in any usual or other form approved by the Secretary and 
executed by or on behalf of the transferor. The Company's registrar shall 
register such transfers of preference shares by making the appropriate 
entries in the register of preference shares. Each preference share shall 
confer, in the event of a winding up or any return of capital by reduction 
of capital (other than, unless otherwise provided by their terms of issue, 
a redemption or purchase by the Company of any of its issued shares, 
or a reduction of share capital), the right to receive out of the surplus 
assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the members 
and in priority to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other shares 
in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of preference shares 

and pari passu with any other class of preference shares (other than any 
class of shares then in issue ranking in priority to the relevant series of 
preference shares), repayment of the amount paid up or treated as paid 
up in respect of the nominal value of the preference share together with 
any premium which was paid or treated as paid when the preference 
share was issued in addition to an amount equal to accrued and 
unpaid dividends.

Variation of rights 
The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the 
consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the 
issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution 
passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class. 
The rights of shares shall not (unless expressly provided by the rights 
attached to such shares) be deemed varied by the creation of further 
shares ranking equally with them or subsequent to them.

Limitations on foreign shareholders 
There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles of Association or 
(subject to the effect of any economic sanctions that may be in force 
from time to time) by current UK laws which relate only to non-residents 
of the UK and which limit the rights of such non-residents to hold or 
(when entitled to do so) vote the ordinary shares.

Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme 
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) operate in connection with certain of  
the Group's Employee Share Plans (Plans). The trustees of the EBTs  
may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their 
fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan 
governing documents. The trustees of the EBTs have informed the 
Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect 
of the Barclays shares held in trust. The trustees of the Global 
Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of 
Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by participants  
in those Plans in respect of their partnership shares and (when vested) 
matching and dividend shares. The trustees will not otherwise vote in 
respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.

Special rights
There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with 
regard to the control of the Company. 

Major shareholders
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of 
other shareholders. Information provided to the Company by substantial 
shareholders pursuant to the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules are published via a Regulatory Information Service 
and is available on the Company's website. As at 31 December 2016, the 
Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights in 
its shares. 

Person interested
Number of 

Barclays shares

% of total 
voting rights 
attaching to 
issued share 

capitala

The Capital Group Companies Incb 1,172,090,125 6.98
Qatar Holding LLCc 1,017,455,690 5.99
BlackRock, Inc.d 922,509,972 5.45
Norges Bank 512,348,359 3.03

Notes
a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of the 

relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules.

b The Capital Group Companies Inc (CG) holds its shares via CG Management 
companies and funds. Part of the CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.

c Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
d Total shown includes 3,860,531 contracts for difference to which voting rights are 

attached. Part of the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. On 19 January 
2017, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial 
ownership of 1,054,988,420 ordinary shares of the Company as of 31 December 2016, 
representing 6.2% of that class of shares. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
94 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report
Other Statutory Information 

Between 31 December 2016 and 20 February 2017 (the latest 
practicable date for inclusion in this report) the Company was notified 
that Norges Bank now holds 508,175,594 Barclays shares, representing 
2.996% of the total voting rights attached to issued share capital. 

Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Company's shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006 
and the Company's Articles. The Directors are authorised to issue and 
allot shares and to buy back shares subject to annual shareholder 
approval at the AGM. Such authorities were granted by shareholders at 
the 2016 AGM. It will be proposed at the 2017 AGM that the Directors 
be granted new authorities to allot and buy back shares.

Repurchase of shares
The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares during 2016 
(2015: none).  As at 20 February 2017 (the latest practicable date for 
inclusion in this report) the Company had an unexpired authority to 
repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,681m ordinary shares.

Change of control
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party 
that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.

Going concern 
The Group's business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely 
to affect its future development and performance and its objectives 
and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed 
are discussed in the Strategic report and Risk review and Risk 
management sections. 

The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis.

Disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware 
and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are 
aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance 
with and subject to those provisions.

Directors' responsibilities 
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with 
the Auditors' report set out on page 269 to 275, is made with a view 
to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of 
the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts. 

The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare 
accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, 
in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have 
prepared Group and individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU. The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present 
fairly the financial position and performance of the Company and the 
Group for that period. The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to 
such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view 
are references to fair presentation. 

The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 267 
to 374, and the additional information contained on pages 134 to 236, 
the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by 
reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards 
which they consider to be applicable have been followed.

Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to 
the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors 
are satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken  
as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's position 
and performance, business model and strategy.

Directors' responsibility statement 
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the 
Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable 
them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006. 

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.

The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 

The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 51 and 
52, confirm to the best of their knowledge that:

(a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and

(b) the management report, which is incorporated in the Directors' 
Report on pages 49 to 94, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.

By order of the Board 

Claire Davies
Company Secretary 
22 February 2017 

Barclays PLC
Registered in England. 
Company No. 48839

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 95

Culture and Values
We are four years into a cultural change journey at Barclays. Over this 
period we have defined a common set of values and embedded them 
across the organisation, ensuring they are recognised and understood 
by our employees. We recognise that fostering the right culture at 
Barclays is critical to our success and we have placed continued focus  
on the importance of a values based culture to the organisation. Early in 
2016 conduct, culture and values was established as one of the strategic 
priorities for the year, and within that we have developed a culture 
measurement framework to manage and measure progress in 
embedding a values based culture across Barclays. This framework is 
anchored in our values and through quarterly indicators and insights we 
are able to assess what we are doing well and where we might need to 
focus attention and prioritise management action across our businesses 
and functions. The quarterly indicators and insights are presented to the 
Board Reputation Committee and the Group Executive Committee and 
shared with our senior leadership teams with a view to becoming an 
integral part of our regular management reporting so that we can ensure 
our priorities and decisions are focused in the right areas. The insights 
from the indicators and metrics within the culture measurement 
framework this year support the view that our ongoing efforts are 
having a positive impact in continuing to create a culture that will help 
us build the Barclays of the future. 

Your View
Engagement of our employees is one of the key indicators of cultural 
health and we recognise the importance of listening to our colleagues 
and maintaining an open, two-way dialogue. The views of our colleagues 
shape the decisions we make, helping us create an environment in 
which colleagues want to work, and which in turn we believe will drive 
high performance. To ensure that we constantly review and reappraise 
to see what is working, in 2016, the annual Your View survey, our 
employee opinion survey, became a quarterly pulse survey excluding 
Africa, providing colleagues the opportunity on a more regular basis to 
say how it feels to work at Barclays. In the third quarter of the year, we 
surveyed 50% of all colleagues and the remaining 50% were surveyed in 
the fourth quarter. Starting from 2017, each quarter 25% of colleagues 
excluding Africa will be invited to take part in Your View. 

The Your View results have continued to measure Sustainable 
Engagement and this year we have been provided with more regular 
snapshots. The quarterly results were then aggregated at the end of the 
year into an overall annual picture of engagement. At the end of 2016 
Sustainable Engagement of our colleagues has remained stable year 
on year at 75%. Areas of particular strength from the annual results 
include: colleagues feeling safe to speak up (81% favourable, up 6% 
points on 2015); colleagues feeling proud of the contribution Barclays 
makes to the community and society (88% favourable, up 3% points 
on 2015) and employees feeling respected regardless of their job (83% 
favourable, up 4% points on 2015). In addition, the commitment and 
discretionary effort of employees continues to be very high with 94% 
saying they believe they work beyond what is required of them to help 
Barclays succeed.  Along with the insights from the quarterly indicators 
within the culture measurement framework, these results evidence that 
we continue to make strong progress in embedding a values based 
culture across the bank.

Leadership and Learning
Our leadership and learning solutions are underpinned by our values and 
are focused on supporting our colleagues to develop critical skills and 
capabilities. Both the Barclays Academy and our Global Curriculum 
provide colleagues with development resources, through a variety of 
formats and content. In 2016 our employees spent an average of 40 
hours each on training through formal programmes, in addition to 
having access to many other informal learning opportunities that are not 
captured through our learning management system. We continue to 
assess candidate alignment to our Values and Behaviours through our 
recruitment and promotion processes and we also ensure new joiners 
attend the ‘Being Barclays' Global Induction programme, which provides 
an in-depth experience of the Values. All colleagues are required to attest 
and demonstrate their understanding of expected behaviours through 
the Global Code of Conduct (The Barclays Way). 

This year a new event was launched, sponsored by the Group CEO, to 
begin to develop the next generation of enterprise leaders who actively 
contribute towards rebuilding the profession of banking through their 
own leadership and their influence of others. By bringing together high 
potential senior leaders from across our businesses and functions we 
seek to strengthen collaboration and an enterprise wide perspective 
amongst our senior leaders to deliver improved solutions and products 
for our customers and clients. 

We have continued to launch and refresh learning and leadership 
initiatives with particular focus on supporting the development of line 
managers. Examples include our Manager Excellence Programme, the 
iLead programme for high potential Directors, and the Senior Leadership 
Development programme in the Banking business. All our leadership 
development activities follow a common principle of leaders teaching 
leaders, creating opportunities for knowledge sharing across different 
parts of Barclays. 

Early careers and apprenticeships
Barclays is committed to helping people achieve their ambitions when 
they enter the world of work whether they are a young person entering 
the workplace for the first time or an experienced professional seeking 
to develop new skills. Barclays Early Careers proposition includes 
graduate, internship and apprenticeship programmes and in 2016 we 
hired over 750 interns and 700 graduates. Since 2012 we have created 
over 3,000 apprenticeships. We provide pathways for progression from 
apprentice to graduate supported by recognised qualifications and, in 
doing so, help to create an internal talent pipeline.

The ambition in 2016 for our apprenticeship programmes was to  
widen accessibility and ensure our programmes are fully inclusive. We 
expanded our Bolder Apprenticeship Programme, targeting long-term 
unemployed adults over the age of 24, and we also piloted our Able 
to Enable Programme targeting the long-term unemployed who 
have a disability. These programmes along with our place on the UK 
Government's Apprenticeship Delivery Board reflect our commitment 
to tackling societal issues and attracting diverse talent. Throughout  
2016 we have continued to receive external recognition for our 
apprenticeship programmes. 

We have transformed the way we recruit for our EMEA Internship and 
Graduate programmes to deliver an improved candidate experience and 
to ensure that we are assessing candidates against the right skills and 
qualities. This recruitment process helps to drive diversity and inclusion 
as students are able to demonstrate ability and potential throughout the 
process so that recruitment outcomes are based on performance and 
not on the basis of academic grades, universities attended and previous 
work experience. This year in the Americas we rolled out our first 
‘Sophomore Springboard' programme aimed at preparing a diverse 
range of students for an internship in their junior year. This was the first 
phase of a two year strategy to identify diverse talent early on. 

Industrial relations
Barclays has a long-standing partnership approach to industrial relations 
and we value the relationships we have with over 30 trade unions, works 
councils and staff associations around the world. Within the UK we have 
a formal partnership with Unite which has been in place for over 15 years 
and is one of the longest standing partnerships in the UK. Throughout 
2016, we have continued to have regular, constructive dialogue with 
employee representatives on a wide range of topics that impact our 
employees in order to seek their feedback prior to implementation. 
Regional consultation forums have also provided a platform for bringing 
together and engaging employee representatives on a wide range of 
topics that affect the interests of our employees.

Managing change
Where restructuring is necessary to support our strategy, we have 
consulted on proposals with our recognised trade unions or employee 
forums and impacted employees, prior to implementation. In line with 
our Values and to ensure we treat all colleagues with respect, we seek 
to avoid compulsory redundancies wherever possible and we try to find 
ways in which we can achieve this during consultation. We continue to 
place significant emphasis on both voluntary redundancy programmes 
as well as internal redeployment through our ‘Internals First' programme. 

Governance: People
Strateg

ic rep
ort

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

ents
S

h
areh

old
er inform

ation

<Page End><Page Start>
96 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: People

Internals First supports colleagues who have been impacted by change 
and provides individual support to ensure that we retain talent within 
Barclays. In 2016, over 1,000 colleagues registered for Internals First 
support and we redeployed 32% of them within Barclays. Throughout 
2016, colleagues have attended Internals First careers and networking 
events and opted for outplacement support services. When an employee 
does leave Barclays as a consequence of restructuring, our commitment 
is to ensure that they are given the best support for the next stage in 
their career. To achieve this, Barclays provides a global career transition 
service which offers personalised advice and support for employees 
placed at risk of redundancy. We also hope to keep in touch with former 
colleagues through the Barclays Global Alumni Programme which 
provides a platform for current and former employees to connect with 
Barclays and one another through global networking events, monthly 
e-newsletters and access to career opportunities.  

Internal Mobility
During 2016 internal mobility has been a key focus. Being able to attract 
and retain talented individuals, as well as provide them with the 
opportunity to take control of their career and development at Barclays 
is one of our most important ambitions. Our aim is that by supporting 
internal mobility across Barclays and making it simple and easy for 
colleagues to move internally, we are successfully retaining and developing 
our internal talent. To promote this and provide colleagues with 
opportunities to broaden their experience, the Group CEO launched ‘Apply 
Within', our internal mobility programme, early in 2016. We have 
developed multiple tools and resources for colleagues to find new internal 
career opportunities and for managers to find and assess suitable internal 
candidates.  Global careers fairs, the Barclays Mentoring Tool and 
enhancements to the ‘My Career' online portal, which was launched in 
2015, are part of the campaign. Thousands of colleagues have visited the 
‘My Career' portal this year to update career profiles, upload CVs and 
import LinkedIn profiles and our Resourcing teams have sought to match 
vacant roles to colleagues' skills and aspirations. We have increased our 
internal recruitment percentage to 48% firm wide (excluding Africa).

Wellbeing
By actively supporting employees to be healthy and happy, we will 
deliver better outcomes for colleagues, for Barclays and for society. Our 
global wellbeing programme ‘Be Well' launched in 2015 and has focused 
on health education, a Global Speaker Series, health risk identification, 
prevention and management as well as new leadership and 
management programmes to help line managers support colleagues. 
The insights developed this year through our wellbeing programme 
help to identify themes and areas to focus on in 2017.

Performance Management
Barclays approach to performance management is key to enabling the 
delivery of our strategy and to continue to embed a values-based 
culture. Colleagues align their objectives (‘what' they will deliver) to 
business and team goals to support the delivery of our strategy and 
good customer outcomes. Behavioural expectations (‘how' they will 
achieve their objectives) are set in the context of our Values. This year 
we have enhanced the focus on balancing the ‘what' and the ‘how' 
through the launch of our ‘Let's talk about how' campaign to remind 
colleagues that ‘how' they achieve their objectives is just as important 
as ‘what' they achieve. Both the campaign and the ‘Values in Action' 
framework provide tools and resources for colleagues to bring to life the 
behaviours that underpin our Values and to enhance the quality of 
performance reviews. 

Our global recognition programme provides colleagues the opportunity 
to recognise the outstanding achievements of those who have 
demonstrated our Values.  We continue to see a year on year increase 
in the number of colleagues receiving a Values ‘Thank You' message 
from a fellow colleague, with over 250,000 sent in 2016.

Colleagues are also encouraged to be involved with the company's 
performance by participating in our all-employee share plans, which 
have been running successfully for over 10 years. Further details of our 
approach to remuneration are included in the Remuneration Report 
pages 105 and 106.

Barclays regularly updates employees regarding the financial and 
economic factors affecting the company's performance throughout the 
year, using a variety of communications channels. These include CEO 
and senior leader communications, line manager briefing packs, video 
interviews and talking points which are distributed to employees every 
quarter to coincide with Barclays' financial reporting calendar. They are 
all designed to build awareness and understanding of Barclays' results 
and the broader macroeconomic environment, and to drive dialogue.  
We also hold a variety of events for employees to hear directly from the 
CEO and the Group Executive Committee and to ask them questions. 

We have also recently introduced an ‘Ask the Experts' communication 
which gives perspectives from across the bank on what Barclays' results 
mean and how they are received by different stakeholders. Flagship 
campaigns are released to all employees each quarter, covering topics 
such as wellbeing, recognition and dynamic working to raise awareness of 
the tools being introduced to help them develop their careers at Barclays 
and to provide them with the opportunity to understand and engage in 
employee initiatives. Colleagues are also kept informed through regular 
intranet and email updates about the progress Barclays is making across 
activity such as Diversity and Inclusion and Performance Management.

Employees are invited to share their opinion on what it is like to work at 
Barclays through regular interactive events with senior leaders. These 
events provide employees with the opportunity to discuss their perspective 
on a range of areas to help senior management understand what is working 
well and where we need to improve. Any changes that are implemented 
as a result of colleague feedback are communicated through leadership 
briefings and engagement initiatives across each business and function.

Diversity and Inclusion 
Barclays' global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy establishes 
objectives, initiatives and plans across each of five core pillars: Gender, 
LGBT, Disability, Multicultural and Multigenerational. As an organisation 
we remain focussed on increasing the diversity of our employees and 
by continuing to foster an inclusive culture we seek to ensure that 
employees of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the 
opportunity to be successful. 

In recognition of this in 2016 we have continued to develop opportunities 
to attract and retain a diverse pipeline of talented employees across the 
bank.  This year we have launched new initiatives including our ‘Encore!' 
Returnship Programme which offers leadership development and 
training opportunities to professionals who have taken a career break 
and are looking to re-enter the workforce. Also launched in 2016 is our 
Able to Enable apprenticeship initiative which targets the long-term 
unemployed who have a disability. Working with Remploy and by 
providing a bespoke, supportive selection process, which includes a 
13 week development experience, we hope to provide opportunities 
for this population.

In June we announced enhancements to our US Leave of Absence 
policies for Childcare and Military Leave, supporting our commitment to 
creating a diverse and inclusive environment through policies that help 
employees successfully integrate their profession and personal lives.

Providing leadership development to ensure we are continuing to build 
an inclusive work environment is paramount to our diversity strategy 
and in 2016 our Unconscious Bias Training, previously delivered to over 
8,000 senior leaders, was deployed to our junior populations with over 
1,900 attending workshops to date.  

We always have more to do, but are pleased when our progress towards 
greater inclusion is recognised. During 2016, we continued to receive 
national and international recognition from respected organisations such 
as the Business Disability Forum in the UK, Human Rights Campaign in 
the US and Community Business for our achievements, citing our D&I 
work as innovative, robust and sustainable. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 97

Gender
Sustaining progress towards increasing female representation at all 
levels across Barclays remains a core focus of our talent management 
and leadership succession processes. Across our organisation and the 
financial services industry we hope to see more females in senior roles 
and we are determined to enable women to fulfil their career aspirations. 
As referenced in the Board Nominations Committee section on page 80 
we revised our Board Diversity Policy in 2015 to reflect our new target of 
minimum 33% female representation on our Board by 2020. Our Board 
membership currently has 31% female representation, reflecting that we 
are on track to meet our 2020 target. 

As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury Women in Leadership 
Charter and supporter of the Hampton-Alexander Review we proactively 
set gender targets and at the end of 2016 female representation across 
the senior leadership population stood at 24% representing the third 
consecutive year-on-year increase and progress towards our 2018 
Women in Leadership goal of 26%. In line with the recommendations 
from the Hampton-Alexander Review, from 2017, we will publish the 
combined number of women on the Group Executive Committee and in 
the direct reports to the Executive Committee. At the end of 2016 female 
representation across this population stood at 25%. We will also use the 
review output to inform the update of our Women in Leadership targets. 

At all levels our gender pipeline has continued to strengthen thanks to 
extensive programmes which focus on building capability and capacity, 
such as our Global Women in Leadership conference with over 5,000 
colleagues participating, the ‘Encore!' Returnship Programme and the 
number of female graduate hires we have made increasing from 31% in 
2014 to 39% in 2016. The Barclays Women's Initiatives Network (WiN) 
also provides targeted development and networking opportunities such 
as group mentoring, careers fairs, and events helping to connect both 
junior and senior colleagues from across the organisation. 

Recognising our efforts, we were invited to be a corporate IMPACT 
champion by the United Nations in their HeForShe campaign on gender 
equality. Internally we have asked colleagues to show their support by 
pledging a specific commitment that will contribute to gender parity. 
Since launching HeForShe, 60% of new members are male and many 
are now taking a more visible role as mentors and sponsors, helping to 
contribute towards gender diversity and greater inclusion. Staying at the 
vanguard of good practice requires sustained commitment and we value 
independent assessment that allows us to calibrate our approach. For 
the ninth year running, we were pleased to be included in The Times Top 
50 Workplaces for Women in the UK, and for the fourth successive year 
to be named in ‘Working Mother' 100 Best Companies in the US.

Female representation

52

51

39

38

26

24

15

14

31

31

% female
staff – all grades

% female
Vice Presidents and
Assistant Vice Presidents

% female
Directors

% female
Managing Directors

% female
Board members

2016 (H2)

2015 (H2)

Above shows the positive change in female representation within Barclays from 2015 (H2) to 2016 (H2)

LGBT
An inclusive culture is vital for colleagues to have the freedom and 
choice to bring their whole selves to work. Enabling that culture, are  
our ‘Spectrum Allies'- colleagues who are committed to inclusion and 
equality. By educating others and visibly supporting equality, allies  
help to make LGBT colleagues, friends and family feel safer and more 
comfortable in leading their lives. The Spectrum Allies campaign has 
identified over 7,000 colleagues globally as LGBT allies in 2016.

‘#nofilter' was the theme of Pride in London 2016, which we were proud 
to be the headline sponsor of for the third consecutive year. More than 
1,100 colleagues, leaders, friends and family came together for Pride in 
London and hundreds of colleagues marched at the head of the parade 
in June. Events for our colleagues, customers and clients took place 
throughout June to celebrate Pride month, and a partnership between 
the Barclays UK Marketing Team and Thomson Reuters resulted in a 
successful social media campaign, including over 10,000 downloads of 
the Pride in London smartphone application, in which Barclays' ‘nofilter' 
advert was highlighted.

Barclays ATM messaging conveyed our advocacy for IDAHOBIT 
(International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia)  
and for World Aids Day, £ for £ matching augmented colleague 
fundraising for organisations leading on the treatment and prevention  
of HIV and Aids.

Independent recognition reflects the sustained impact of our global 
work. Stonewall continue to name us as one of just eight ‘Star Performer' 
organisations seen as leaders globally. Role-model colleagues were this 
year recognised in the Financial Times OUTstanding list of 100 LGBT 
business leaders, and in the Pride Power List. Awards simply serve to 
motivate us to continue to shape our culture so that colleagues really 
can bring their whole selves to work. Through the Your View survey we 
provide colleagues with the opportunity to identify as being LGBT, with 
3% of colleagues identifying as being LGBT in 2016.

Disability
Our aspiration to become ‘the most accessible bank' remains firm. 
Progressing our aim, this year in partnership with the Lord Mayor of 
the City we expanded our internal campaign, ‘This Is Me', into the City 
of London to encourage other organisations to join in eliminating the 
stigma associated with mental health issues. Over 70 organisations 
have already signed up for ‘This is Me in The City'. Through our 
corporate accessibility portal, we have now made our learning on 
accessibility and inclusion available for any organisation. 

We give continued to give full and fair consideration to applications from 
candidates who may have a disability. Our people processes ensure all 
colleagues can progress their careers, with comprehensive training and 
development including our Disability Confident eLearning, and through 
tailored and needs-based workplace adjustments where relevant.  
This year we reviewed our Workplace Adjustment process to make it 
simpler and easier for colleagues and our Adjustment Passport outlines 
colleagues' reasonable adjustments to eliminate the need for colleagues 
to inform new line managers and to increase the ease of internal mobility. 
Employees who become disabled during their employment with us can 
access a full range of services and support ensuring we retain their talent. 

Our efforts were recognised when Barclays achieved 98% in the 
Business Disability Forum's world-renown Disability Standard – the 
highest ever score awarded to any organisation since the introduction 
of the Disability Standard in 2004. 

Multigenerational

0.04%

0.04%

12%

11%

29%

28%

62%

64%

1%

1%

Above shows the different generations working at Barclays and the percentage change 
over 2015 (H2) and 2016 (H2)

69+
(Veterans/Traditionalists)

51 to 69
(Baby Boomers)

39 to 51
(Generation X)

20 to 39
(Generation Y)

20 and below
(Millennial)

2016 (H2)

2015 (H2)

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
98 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: People

We benefit from the diverse perspectives of employees from five 
generations and need to ensure our workplace is inclusive for all. 
Dynamic Working, our signature campaign relevant to colleagues every 
life stage with the strapline of ‘how do your work your life', is 
encouraging the integration of personal and professional responsibilities 
through smarter work patterns. 

As an example of our commitment to colleagues in different life stages, 
we are one of the eight founding members in the Equality and Human 
Rights Commissions (EHRC) Working Forward campaign that aims to 
make British workplaces the best they can be for pregnant women and 
working mothers. Our Working Families network is supporting the 
campaign by running integration workshops for returners from parental 
and adoption leave.

The Emerge network supports colleagues early in their career or new 
to financial services and the multigenerational composition of our 
workforce. This year a global reverse mentoring programme was 
launched with over 200 successful reverse mentoring partnerships 
established. Our Bolder Apprentice Programme continues to grow 
and our Returnship programmes, both in the UK and US, are proving  
to be successful. 

Changing careers is also important, which is why our Armed Forces 
Transitioning, Employment and Rehabilitation (AFTER) programme 
continued to see ex-military talent join our company, or be supported to 
gain relevant work-ready skills. Since the programme began in 2010 
AFTER has assisted over 4,000 veterans in employment transition, we 
have hired nearly 400 ex-military talent and over £4m has been donated 
to military charities to assist wounded and injured personnel in 
employment transition. Meanwhile, our ‘LifeSkills' programmes continue 
to prepare young people for their first steps into the world of work.

Working Families UK recognised Barclays for best embedded workplace 
flexibility through our Dynamic Working Campaign. In Singapore, we 
won the Most Empowering Company for Mums award by the National 
Trades Union Congress, while in the US we were included in the ‘100 
Best Companies for Working Mothers'. In the UK, our approach to talent 
attraction was recognised by Working Mums as well as by Business In 
the Community. 

Multicultural

30%

31%

50%

47%

70%

69%

59%

60%

Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations that make up our global and regional 
populations. Note that underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure inclusion with 
all groups in the workplace

a UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
b US includes Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
c South Africa includes African, Indian, Coloured, Other, and Non-disclosed.

UKa

USb

South Africac

Global

2016 (H2)

2015 (H2)

Barclays global footprint makes multicultural inclusion imperative. 
Fostering cross-cultural connections is enabled by Embrace our 
multicultural network. Through the year Embrace has partnered with 
leaders and engaged colleagues across our global community to host 
discussions to gain insight and ideas on how we can better serve our 
multicultural customers and clients. Embrace also helped us mark 
important cultural and religious calendar dates throughout 2016 such as 
Diwali and Eid, creating communications and events to bring to life the 
rich multicultural diversity of our people. Day to day, this diversity is 
enabled by, for example, dedicated quiet rooms in many of our larger 
sites for prayer and reflection, and by serving halal and kosher food in 
our canteens.

Barclays Apprenticeship Programme reflects our commitment to recruit 
a diverse workforce. Since the programme launched in 2012, we have 
recruited over 3,000 apprentices who are considered NEET (Not in 
Education, Employment or Training). 30% identify as Black, Asian and 
Minority Ethnic, which is 19% higher than the national apprenticeship 
average of 11%. In addition, 43% of our apprentices are from a 
disadvantaged area, as defined by the Department of Education. 
Through this scheme we are making a positive impact on both youth 
unemployment and social mobility.

Ensuring Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) female entrepreneurs 
can sustain and develop their businesses has been a shared focus via 
our partnership with the UK Women's Business Council, and in 2016 
we also supported the Black British Business Awards to celebrate the 
achievements of BAME leaders in the UK. The multicultural profile of 
the organisation was acknowledged externally with senior leader role 
models recognised in the top 100 inaugural ‘UPstanding Executive 
Power List' of BAME leaders in the UK and US and in the Powerlist an 
annual publication of Britain's most influential people of African and 
African Caribbean heritage.

Permanent Employees by region
2016 2015 2014

UK 46,400 49,000 48,600
Continental Europe 4,700 7,400 9,900
Americas 9,700 10,600 10,900
Africa and Middle East 42,800 43,600 44,700
Asia Pacific 15,700 18,800 18,200
Total 119,300 129,400 132,300

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 99

 We remain focused on aligning our pay to 
performance and setting pay at a level which  
allows us to attract, retain and motivate, but 
is no more than necessary to ensure that we 
accelerate the delivery of shareholder value. 
The inherent tension between these important 
considerations continues to be a key 
component of the Committee's deliberations.  

Dear Fellow Shareholders
As Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 
introduce the Remuneration report for 2016. I set out below the business 
context which influenced the major decisions taken by the Committee 
for the year. This year's report also includes a new Directors' 
remuneration policy, which has been updated for regulatory changes, 
and simplified where possible.

Performance and pay
We remain focused on aligning our pay to performance and setting pay 
at a level which allows us to attract, retain and motivate, but is no more 
than necessary to ensure that we accelerate the delivery of shareholder 
value. The inherent tension between these important considerations 
continues to be a key component of the Committee's deliberations.

2016 represented a year of strong progress against our strategy. We 
have moved a step closer towards completing the restructuring of 
Barclays – a restructuring that will create a simplified bank focused on 
delivering long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Our Core 
businesses are performing well, the rundown of Non-Core businesses 
has accelerated and Barclays continues to explore opportunities to 
reduce its shareholding in BAGL to a level that would permit regulatory 
deconsolidation. The result will be the creation of a high performing 
transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank.

Our Core businesses delivered profit before tax up materially, 60% up 
compared to 2015. Excluding notable items this increase was 4%, and 
10% excluding the impact of changes to our deferral arrangements 
(further detail overleaf). Core costs of £13.4bn exceeded guidance due 
to changes to the deferral arrangements. Return on Tangible Equity 
(RoTE) in our Core businesses has increased to 8.4% in 2016 (2015: 
4.8%). Excluding notable items, Core RoTE was 9.4% (2015: 11.2%).

Non-Core has executed well against strategy, accelerating the 
rundown while preserving capital, delivering a £22bn reduction 
in Risk Weighted Assets. 

Group profit before tax for 2016 is 182% up from 2015, at £3,230m,  
in part driven by a material reduction in costs associated with risk and 
conduct events in 2016. The Group's capital position continues to 
strengthen with a 2016 year end CRD IV fully loaded Common Equity 
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 12.4% (2015: 11.4%).

The Committee's deliberations on the 2016 incentive pool reflected 
Group performance and strategic delivery in both the Core and 
Non-Core businesses. We reached the decision that an overall Group 
incentive pool of £1,533m, down slightly from £1,544m in 2015, is 
appropriate notwithstanding strong 2016 delivery. This level of incentive 
pool also absorbs the material adverse impact of foreign exchange 
movements through the year, which more than offset the impact of 
reductions in staff numbers in the year. 

The Core compensation to net income (excluding notable items) ratio 
decreased from 34.0% in 2015 to 32.7% in 2016 excluding the impact  
of the deferral changes, increasing slightly to 34.7% including the 
impact of these changes. At a Group level, the ratio increased to 40.2% 
(2015: 37.7%) driven by Non-Core as it continues to be run down. 

Risk and conduct
The Committee takes risk and conduct issues very seriously and ensures 
that appropriate adjustments are made at both the individual level and 
to the incentive pool. 

Individual performance management reviews assess individuals' 
alignment with Barclays' Values, which in turn impacts individual 
incentive decisions. Employees who exhibit Barclays' Values, resulting  
in positive risk and conduct outcomes, are rewarded accordingly while 
those who are directly or indirectly accountable for risk and conduct 
issues have their remuneration adjusted downwards. This includes 
reductions in current year bonus and, where appropriate, reductions 
through the application of malus and, going forward, clawback.

Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee

Governance: Remuneration report

Contents
Page

Annual statement 99
New Directors' remuneration policy – at a glance 101
2016 incentives 103
Remuneration policy for all employees 105
Directors' remuneration policy 108
Annual report on Directors' remuneration 121
Additional remuneration disclosures 133
The tables marked ‘audited' in the report have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Remuneration Committee members
Chairman
Crawford Gillies 

Members
Tim Breedon
Mary Francis (from November 2016)
Dambisa Moyo 
Steve Thieke (until March 2016)

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
100 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee

Collective adjustments have also been made to the Group incentive pool 
for specific material risk and conduct events, and to take account of an 
overall assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, 
non-financial factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk 
management and conduct culture and other factors including 
reputation, impact on customers, markets and other stakeholders.

Changes to deferral arrangements
Under existing incentive deferral arrangements, there is a limited 
relationship between in-year performance costs booked and changes in 
the incentive pool. This is a result of high overall levels of deferral, as well 
as the way that the costs of those deferrals have been recognised in our 
accounts. The effect of this is that if we chose – for example – to reduce 
the incentive pool in a given year due to underperformance, there would 
be limited impact on costs for the year in question. This lack of in-year 
flexibility on such an important cost line is not ideal. From 2016, a 
change in the recognition timing of deferral costs, together with a 
harmonisation of deferral levels across the Group, will result in 
improvements to the Group's operational flexibility going into 2017  
and beyond.

These changes are described in further detail on page 104. 

New remuneration policy for 2017
We will be seeking shareholder approval for a new Directors' 
remuneration policy (DRP) at the 2017 AGM. The new policy adopts, 
where possible, a more simplified and transparent approach to 
remuneration and is more closely aligned to Barclays' remuneration 
philosophy. Changes in the policy also address recent regulatory 
developments, in particular the requirement to defer bonuses and  
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards for a period of up to seven years. 
We have also introduced a new requirement for executive Directors 
to hold shares for two years post-termination. 

The Committee was supportive of an even more simplified approach 
than that proposed, but the Committee concluded that while this 
alternative was attractive, there was not yet sufficient clarity on major 
shareholders' expectations for us to propose such a change at the 
present time. The proposed changes to the DRP have been discussed 
with a number of our larger shareholders and institutional shareholder 
bodies, and overall they are broadly supportive of the changes. An  
‘at a glance' summary of the new policy can be found on pages 101 
and 102 of this report and the full policy is set out on pages 108 to 120.

Key remuneration decisions for executive Directors
Based on the performance of our executive Directors against the 
performance measures set at the beginning of the year, the Committee 
approved a 2016 bonus award of £1,318,000 (60% of maximum) for Jes 
Staley and £854,000 (61% of maximum) for Tushar Morzaria. Further 
details of the Committee's 2016 decisions for the executive Directors are 
set out on pages 121 and 122. 70% of Jes Staley's annual bonus and 
60% of Tushar Morzaria's annual bonus have been deferred in shares.
The period over which variable remuneration has been deferred has 
increased to seven years. Unvested variable remuneration is subject 
to malus during the vesting period. All variable remuneration awarded 
to the executive Directors is also subject to clawback for a period of 
up to 10 years.

The Committee has agreed that Jes Staley's Fixed Pay will be unchanged 
for 2017 at £2,350,000 (2016: salary £1,200,000 and Role Based Pay 
(RBP) £1,150,000). The Committee has agreed that Tushar Morzaria's 
Fixed Pay will be increased to £1,650,000 for 2017 (2016: salary 
£800,000 and RBP £750,000). In considering the appropriate level of 
Tushar Morzaria's Total fixed pay (Fixed Pay plus Pension), the 
Committee took account of the time he has been in role without any 
increase (over three years), his strong performance and importance to 
the organisation, and industry market rates for the role. The Committee 
concluded that an increase of 5.7%, being less than the cumulative 
increase paid to UK employees over the same period, was warranted but 
agreed that the executive Directors would not be eligible for any further 
increase in the next three years (i.e. during the new policy period). 

From 2017, Barclays is evolving from the existing Balanced Scorecard 
approach to one which better reflects progress towards our strategic 
goals. While many of the performance measures remain consistent with 
the Balanced Scorecard, the new Performance Measurement Framework 
allows for a more holistic assessment and broadens our approach to 
strategic non-financial measures while retaining a balance of key 
financial performance measures. The framework has been incorporated 
into the measures for the 2017 annual bonus and LTIP with effect from 
the 2017 award. Financial measures will guide 60% of the maximum 
opportunity for the 2017 annual bonus, and 70% of the maximum 
opportunity for the 2017 LTIP award.

Agenda for 2017
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that remuneration  
is aligned to the delivery of our strategy and sustainable shareholder 
returns. The Committee will also continue to monitor the 
competitiveness of our remuneration in the light of recent regulatory 
changes by the PRA, FCA and EBA. These changes have compounded 
the competitive disadvantage for UK based global firms attributable to 
the lack of a global level regulatory ‘playing field'. 

We will also continue to progress further our agenda to address pay 
inequality, further details on page 106, which is in line with the proposals 
in the Government's Green Paper on Corporate Governance Reform. 
The Committee welcomes this Green Paper and supports its intent to 
strengthen accountability over executive pay. We have provided our 
views on the proposals via an industry response and will monitor 
developments over the coming months.

Our Remuneration report
The report has been prepared in accordance with the remuneration 
disclosures required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.  
We are seeking shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM for our new DRP, 
the Remuneration report (other than the part containing the DRP) and 
revisions to the Barclays LTIP in response to changes in regulatory 
requirements. Further details can be found in the 2017 AGM Notice 
of Meeting.

I am grateful for the feedback received from our larger shareholders  
on our remuneration proposals and value the insight the discussions 
provide. I hope you will support these resolutions at the 2017 AGM.

Crawford Gillies 
Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee
22 February 2017

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 101

Introduction
Barclays' new DRP is subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM on 10 May 2017 and, if approved, is intended to apply immediately,  
for three years to the date of the 2020 AGM.

What were the key factors taken into account when determining the new DRP?
The Committee considered the Barclays' remuneration philosophy (adopted in 2015), regulatory developments and its experience of operating the 
prior DRP when designing the new DRP. 

Inputs Outcomes

Alignment with Barclays' remuneration philosophy ■■ Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays' strategy
■■ Align pay with investor interests
■■ Reward sustainable performance
■■ Support Barclays' Values and culture
■■ Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations
■■ Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible

Regulatory developments ■■ Longer deferral periods: 
 – 7 year pro-rata, from year 3 for PRA Senior Managers  
(including executive Directors)

 – Extension of clawback periods from 7 to 10 years for PRA  
Senior Managers (including executive Directors)

■■ Applies for first time for 2017 performance year:
 – Prohibition on dividend equivalents on deferred shares
 – Increase to one year (from 6 months) holding period for awards 
delivered in shares 

 – Requirement that LTIP grants are based on performance over  
prior year as well as forward-looking performance period

What are the key changes to the DRP?

Key changes

Fixed pay ■■ ‘Fixed Pay' introduced, replacing salary and RBP
■■ Fixed Pay delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares  

(subject to 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata)
■■ Fixed Pay will not change during the policy period for either of the 

current executive Directors
■■ Pension allowance retained at current levels, but limited to 10% of 

Fixed Pay for new hires

Variable pay ■■ Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory deferral purposes

Performance measures ■■ Bonus: Financial measures ≥ 60% 
■■ LTIP: Financial measures ≥ 70%

Delivery ■■ Any bonus deferral vests in equal tranches between the third  
and seventh anniversary of award

■■ LTIP performance is tested at end of 3 year performance period and 
vests in equal tranches between the third and seventh anniversary  
of award

Shareholding requirement ■■ Requirement increased to 200% of Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus 
Pension) within 5 years from their respective date of appointment 
(from 400% of salary to equivalent of 457% of salary for CEO)

■■ New requirement to hold shares worth 100% of Total fixed pay (or 
pro-rata thereof) for 2 years post-termination

Employment contracts ■■ For new hires, asymmetry for notice periods removed i.e. 6 months 
from the Company and 6 months from the Director (from 12 months 
from the Company and 6 months from the Director)

Full details of the changes to the DRP can be found on page 113.  
The full DRP is set out on pages 108 to 120.

Governance: Remuneration report
New Directors' remuneration policy – at a glance

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
102 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
New Directors' remuneration policy – at a glance

How will the new DRP be implemented?
The following charts illustrate how the vesting profiles of maximum total compensation for the Group CEO would change from the current policy to 
the new policy. All share awards are subject to additional holding periods following vesting, during which shares may not be sold or transferred.

Current policy – pre-regulatory change (for current CEO) Proposed policy – post-regulatory change (for current CEO) 

2017

0%

300%

250%

200%

150%

100%

50%

2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252018 2019

Salary RBP (released over 5 years) Pension

Upfront share bonus (subject to 6 month holding)Upfront cash bonus

Deferred bonus (subject to 6 month holding)

Additional holding period after vest

LTIP (subject to 2 year holding)

300%

2017

0%

300%

250%

200%

150%

100%

50%

2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252018 2019

Fixed cash Fixed shares (released over 5 years) Pension

Upfront share bonus (subject to 1 year holding)Upfront cash bonus

Deferred bonus (subject to 1 year holding) LTIP (subject to 1 year holding)

Additional holding period after vest

Subject to shareholder approval of the new DRP, the proposed DRP will apply from the 2017 performance year.

How will the executive Directors' remuneration be structured in 2017?

Total fixed pay
Fixed Pay

£000
Pension

£000
Jes Staley 2,350 396
Tushar Morzaria 1,650 200

Annual bonus
Maximum 80% of Total fixed pay

2017 Performance measures and weighting:
Profit before tax excluding notable items 22.5%
CET1 ratio 22.5%
Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items 15.0%
Strategic/non-financial 20.0%
Personal objectives 20.0%

LTIP
Maximum 120% of Total fixed pay

2017-2019 cycle performance measures and weighting:
RoTE excluding notable items 25%
CET1 ratio as at 31.12.19 25%
Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items 20%
Strategic/non-financial 15%
Risk Scorecard 15%

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 103

2016 pay and performance headlines
The key performance considerations which the Committee took into account in making its remuneration decisions for 2016 are highlighted below:
■■ Group profit before tax was up 182% at £3,230m (2015: £1,146m)
■■ Group CET1 ratio was up to 12.4% (2015: 11.4%)
■■ Core profit before tax was up 60% from 2015 at £6,016m. Excluding notable items Core profit before tax was up 4% to £6,436m (2015: £6,191m), 

and up 10% excluding the impact of deferral changes made in 2016
■■ RoTE in our Core businesses increased to 8.4% in 2016 (2015: 4.8%). Excluding notable items, Core RoTE was 9.4% (2015: 11.2%)
■■ strong execution of the rundown of Non-Core resulting in a reduction in Risk Weighted Assets of £22bn.

The pay outcomes and decisions can be summarised as follows:

■■ total compensation costs increased 2% to £7,445m (2015: £7,301m) including the impact of the deferral changes. Excluding this impact 
compensation costs were down 3%

■■ total incentive awards granted were slightly down at £1,533m (2015: £1,544m)
■■ the level of incentive pool absorbs the material adverse impact of foreign exchange movements through the year which more than offset the 

impact of reductions in staff numbers in the year 
■■ the Core compensation to net income ratio (excluding notable items) improved to 32.7% (2015: 34.0%) excluding the impact of deferral changes, 

increasing slightly to 34.7% including the impact of these changes 
■■ Group compensation to net income ratio (excluding notable items) was 40.2% (2015: 37.7%) driven by Non-Core income reduction as it runs 

down
■■ Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) front office incentive awards were also slightly down at £875m (2015: £884m). Excluding the impact  

of deferral changes made in 2016, CIB compensation to net income ratio (excluding notable items) was 39.2% (2015: 40.3%)
■■ there has been continued strong differentiation on the basis of individual performance to allow the Group to more effectively manage 

compensation costs.

2016 total incentive award decisions
The Committee's 2016 incentives decisions took full consideration of financial and non-financial performance and also the material repositioning  
of incentives undertaken since 2010. Since 2010, the Group incentive pool has declined steadily, from £3,484m in 2010 to £1,533m in 2016 – a 
decrease of 56% over six years.  

(56%) Group

£
3,4

8
4

m

£
2

,37
8

m

£1,8
6

0
m £1,5

4
4

m

£
2

,5
7

8
m £

2
,16

8
m

£1,5
3

3
m

2010 2013 2014a 2015b2011 2012 2016

Notes
a Part of the reduction in incentive pools in 2014 was due to the introduction of RBP.
b The 2015 Group incentive pool has been restated from £1,669m to reflect the treatment of Africa Banking as a discontinued operation. The 2010 – 2014 Group 

incentive pools have not been restated.

Governance: Remuneration report
2016 incentives

This section provides details of how the 2016 total incentive award decisions were made.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
104 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report

Total incentive awards granted – current year
Barclays Group



% change

Year ended
31.12.16

£m 

Year ended
31.12.15

£m 

Incentive awards granted    
Bonus pool 1,459 1,453 0
Commissions and other incentivesa 74 91 19
Total incentive awards granted 1,533 1,544 1

   
Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge:     
Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year (300) (665) 55
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years  690 856 19
Otherb (26) 26
Income statement charge for performance costsc  1,897 1,761 (8)

Total compensation costsd,e 7,445 7,301 (2)
Total compensation costs before the impact of deferral changesd,e 7,050 7,301 3

Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred % 30 46

Notes
a Awards included in 2015 as commitments are now reflected in Bonus pool for consistency with 2016.
b Difference between incentive awards granted and Income Statement charge for commissions and other incentives.
c Includes the £395m impact of changes to deferral arrangements.
d 2015 total compensation costs have been adjusted to exclude the impact of a £429m gain on valuation of a component of the defined benefit liability. 
e In addition £212m of Group compensation (2015: £236m) was capitalised as internally generated software.  

Changes to deferral arrangements 
From 2016 onwards, costs in relation to deferred bonuses are expensed from the performance year in respect of which they are granted. 
Approximately 33% of deferred bonus costs will be taken in the year of performance, being the year prior to granting (previously 0%). This 
acceleration of future cost immediately improves the link between in-year performance costs and the size of the incentive pool.

The relationship between in-year performance costs and changes in the incentive pool will be further improved through a change to harmonise the 
deferral approach for all staff across the Group, creating internal consistency. Historically, we have applied deferral levels significantly higher than 
those required by our regulators for bonus payments made specifically to senior staff in our Investment Bank, making them defer 100% of incentive 
awards over at least three years, with nothing paid at all in the year in which the performance is delivered. This meant that any change to the 
Investment Bank pool in incentive awards to those staff had limited impact on the in-year performance costs recognised in our accounts. This 
approach also put us out of step with peer practice where deferral levels are typically lower. Our new Group deferral approach ensures that all staff 
will defer at least what is required by our regulators, while all of our highest paid staff will continue to defer more than is required to preserve the 
strong alignment to future Group performance. This change means that any change in incentive awards will now have a direct and immediate 
impact on performance costs for the year when the charge is made.

The alignment of deferral levels across the Group also helps from a global competitive perspective given the differences in approach being adopted 
by the different regulatory regimes. The differences have widened given the recent changes in the UK e.g. the increase in deferral duration to seven 
years for PRA Senior Managers and to five years for many other MRTs (from three years previously). Harmonising our deferral approach makes the 
delivery less uncompetitive outside the UK while importantly maintaining our responsibilities to all our stakeholders.

Impact of deferral changes

Barclays Group

Barclays Group
Year ended

31.12.16
%

Year ended
31.12.15

%

Compensation costs as a % of net income (excluding notable items)
Before impact of deferral changes 38.1 37.7
After impact of deferral changes 40.2 37.7

Barclays Core % %
Compensation costs as a % of net income (excluding notable items)
Before impact of deferral changes 32.7 34.0
After impact of deferral changes 34.7 34.0

2016 incentives

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 105

Remuneration policy for all employees

This section sets out Barclays' remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration packages, and 
how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.

Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration philosophy
In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays' overarching remuneration 
approach and is set out below.

Barclays' remuneration philosophy

Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays' strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees. This 
means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent to deliver 
against our strategy, and paying the right amount for that talent

Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees' interests are aligned with those of investors  
(equity and debt holders), both in structure and the appropriate 
balance of returns

Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to 
stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable role 
in society

Support Barclays' Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values. Our 
Values and culture should drive the way that business is conducted

Align with Risk Appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with the 
Bank's risk appetite and conduct expectations

Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward  
our employees. Remuneration structures should be as simple as 
possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the 
behaviours they reward

Culture and remuneration 
Barclays' remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value. Our remuneration 
philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical to 
enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values. Employees who adhere to the Barclays' Values and contribute to Barclays' 
success are rewarded accordingly.

This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their objectives 
(‘what' they will deliver) to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good customer outcomes. 
Behavioural expectations (‘how' people will achieve their objectives) are set in the context of our Values. 

Individual performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria. Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall 
performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well as 
input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.

Through our performance management approach we emphasise the equal importance of both ‘what' an individual has delivered as well as ‘how' 
they have achieved this, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension. Both of these elements are assessed and rated independently of 
each other. In 2016 we eliminated the requirement to have an overall rating which should allow for more robust and reflective conversations between 
managers and team members on the individual components of performance.

A key part of the performance management philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year. This helps manage performance 
messages effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching and support where needed.

By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays' strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment between 
what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.

Risk, conduct and remuneration
Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations  
of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders. The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate 
adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.

The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process. The Panel is chaired by the Chief Risk 
Officer and includes senior representatives from the key control functions of Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit, Legal and HR as well as the CEOs of 
Barclays UK and Barclays International. It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.

We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected in 
individual remuneration decisions. Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring the risk and conduct issues are considered when 
assessing performance and making remuneration decisions. In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals involved 
in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or business to 
ensure these issues are also considered. When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as whether an 
individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including staff who drive 
the Group's culture and set its strategy. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
106 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Remuneration policy for all employees

Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include:

Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible (either directly or indirectly)  
in a risk or misconduct event.

Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting 
level of deferred bonuses (including to nil) at its discretion. Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not 
limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.

Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a PRA Material Risk Taker (MRT) on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of 
years for which they are a MRT. Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven year period from the date on which 
variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: (i) there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and/or  
(ii) the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individual's proximity to and 
responsibility for that incident.

Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory investigations 
at the end of the 7 year clawback period.

Where possible, an adjustment will be made to current year annual bonus, before the application of malus and then clawback.

In addition to reductions to individuals' bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific 
material risk and conduct events. In 2016, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance 
and the additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of £150m.

We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial factors 
that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on customers, 
markets and other stakeholders.

Remuneration levels
Barclays is a long-standing supporter of the Living Wage. As an accredited Living Wage employer, Barclays commits to ensure that all permanent  
UK employees and those UK employees of third party contractors who provide services to us at our sites, are paid at least the current London or  
UK Living Wage. This is a commitment which we have also extended to all our UK employed apprentices.

Barclays is also fully committed to addressing pay inequality. Barclays' work in this area is illustrated by recent union pay deals and the repositioning 
of the incentive pools over recent years. Over the past few years, we have consciously redirected the bonus pool funding, providing proportionally 
more to junior employees.

For UK employees, average Total Compensation (fixed pay plus bonus) for Managing Directors has reduced materially since 2010 (broadly in line  
with the reduction in the incentive pool). Over the same period, junior populations have been protected and have seen small increases in Total 
Compensation despite a challenging business environment. Similarly, salaries have been consciously increased for those within lower corporate 
grades within the UK. The UK pay deal which was in place for the 2014-2016 period provided non-management populations (primarily outside of the 
Investment Bank) with a 7.5% merit increase over the three-year period. A new three-year pay deal with Unite was reached in January 2017 which 
commits for the non-management population to a 7.5% merit increase over the 2017-2019 period and also commits to a minimum increase of 10% 
for the most junior graded employees.

Remuneration structure
The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which is at pages 108 to 
120 of this report and for which shareholder approval is being sought at the 2017 AGM. The primary exception being that the executive Directors 
participate in the Barclays' LTIP.

Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus. Employees in some customer-facing 
businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure.  
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays' Values. Some senior employees also receive RBP. For executive Directors, 
under the new DRP, salary and RBP are replaced by Fixed Pay. Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to total fixed 
pay. A total of 1,561 (2015: 1,523) individuals were MRTs in 2016. Capital requirements regulation (CRR) quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set 
out on pages 176 and 177 of Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the 
parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 107

Fixed remuneration

Salary Salaries reflect individuals' skills and experience and are reviewed annually in the context of annual performance assessment.  
They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate.

Salaries may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.

Role Based Pay 
(RBP)

A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth  
of their role.

Pension and 
benefits

The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver 
Barclays' strategy. Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, 
healthcare, life assurance and Barclays' share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits. The cost of providing 
these benefits is defined and controlled.

Variable remuneration

Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees  
for demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays' Values.

The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to react 
to events and market circumstances. Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and mobile 
market for talent in the financial services sector. The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed 
remuneration paid to individuals.

From 2016, the typical deferral structures are:
For MRTs: For non-MRTs: 

Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred
< £500,000 40% of total award Up to £65,000 0%
£500,000 to £1,000,000 60% of total award > £65,000 Graduated level of deferral
≥ £1,000,000 60% up to £1,000,000 

100% above £1,000,000

Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the deferred 
cash and share plans (as amended from time to time) and continued service. From 2016, deferred bonuses are subject to either a 
3, 5 or 7 year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.

Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay. We also encourage wider  
employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans. 82% of the global employee population (excluding Africa) is  
eligible to participate.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
108 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration reportGovernance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Remuneration policy for executive Directors
Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures

A. Fixed pay

Fixed Pay
To reward skills and experience 
appropriate for the breadth and 
depth of the role and to provide 
the basis for a competitive 
remuneration package

Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice 
and historical market data (on which the Committee receives 
independent advice), and reflects the individual's experience 
and role.

Executive Directors' total compensation is benchmarked 
against comparable roles in the following banks: Bank of 
America, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche 
Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase & Co, Lloyds, Morgan Stanley, 
Standard Chartered and UBS. The Committee may amend 
the list of comparator companies to ensure it remains 
relevant to Barclays or if circumstances make this necessary 
(for example, as a result of takeovers or mergers).

50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash (paid monthly), and 
50% is delivered in shares. The shares are delivered quarterly 
and are subject to a holding period with restrictions lifting 
over five years (20% each year). As the executive Directors 
beneficially own the shares, they will be entitled to any 
dividends paid on those shares.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.

Fixed Pay for executive Directors is set within 
the benchmark range determined by the 
Committee taking into account their 
experience and performance. 

The maximum Fixed Pay is £2,350,000 for Jes 
Staley (Group Chief Executive) and £1,650,000 
for Tushar Morzaria (Group Finance Director).

These amounts are fixed and will not change 
during the policy period for these individuals.

There are no performance measures.

Pension
To enable executive Directors 
to build long-term retirement 
savings

Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu 
of participation in a pension arrangement.

The maximum annual cash allowance is 
£396,000 for Jes Staley (Group Chief Executive) 
and £200,000 for Tushar Morzaria (Group 
Finance Director). 

These amounts are fixed and will not change 
during the policy period for these individuals. 

Benefits
To provide a competitive and 
cost effective benefits package 
appropriate to the role and 
location

Executive Directors' benefits provision includes, but is not 
restricted to, private medical cover, annual health check, life 
and ill health income protection, car cash allowance, and use 
of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business 
purposes.

In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to 
relocate, additional support would be provided for a defined 
and limited period of time in line with Barclays' general 
employee mobility policy including, but not restricted to, the 
provision of temporary accommodation, tax advice, home 
leave related costs, payment of removal costs and relocation 
flights for the executive Director, spouse and children. 
Barclays will pay the executive Director's tax on the relocation 
costs but will not tax equalise and will also not pay the tax on 
any other employment income.

The maximum value of the benefit is 
determined by the nature of the benefit itself 
and costs of provision may depend on external 
factors, e.g. insurance costs.

This section sets out the proposed new Barclays' forward-looking remuneration policy for Directors, which has evolved from the existing policy 
and explains each element of remuneration and how it operates. The policy described in this section is intended to apply for three years 
beginning on the date of the 2017 AGM, subject to shareholder approval. 

The existing policy can be found on pages 100 to 110 of the 2013 Annual Report or at home.barclays/annualreport.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 109

Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures

B. Variable pay

Annual bonus
To reward delivery of short-
term financial targets set each 
year, the individual 
performance of the executive 
Directors in achieving those 
targets, and their contribution 
to delivering Barclays' strategic 
objectives

Delivery in part in shares with  
a holding period increases 
alignment with shareholders. 
Deferred bonuses encourage 
longer term focus and retention

Determination of annual bonus
Individual bonuses are discretionary and decisions are based 
on the Committee's judgement of executive Directors' 
performance in the year, measured against Group and 
personal objectives.

Delivery structure
Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and 
shares, a proportion of which may be deferred and/or subject 
to a holding period.

Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured 
so that, in combination with any LTIP award, the proportion 
of variable pay that is deferred is no less than that required 
by regulations. 

Deferred bonuses are granted by the Committee (or an 
authorised sub-committee) at its discretion, subject to the 
relevant plan rules as amended from time to time.

Dividend equivalents, in the form of additional shares, are 
payable on the vested deferred bonus shares, equal to  
the dividends paid or payable between the award date and 
the relevant release date. If dividend equivalents are not 
permissible under regulations, the number of deferred  
bonus shares to be awarded will be based on a share price 
discounted by reference to an expected dividend yield over 
the vesting period. In such circumstances, the Committee 
has discretion to reduce (not increase) the number of 
shares that vest if actual dividends paid over the period 
are materially lower than the original dividend assumption.

A notional discount may be applied to the deferred bonus 
awards for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the 
extent this is permitted by regulations (currently a discount is 
permitted on up to 25% of variable pay where the conditions 
for applying such a discount are met).

Operation of risk and conduct adjustment, malus  
and clawback
Any bonus awarded will reflect appropriate consideration in 
relation to Group risk and conduct events. Individual bonus 
decisions may also reflect appropriate reductions in relation 
to specific risk and conduct events. Any bonus is also subject 
to malus and clawback provisions. 

The malus provisions enable the Committee to reduce the 
amount of unvested bonus (including to nil) prior to the 
unvested bonus vesting in specified circumstances, 
including, but not limited to: 
■■ a participant deliberately misleading Barclays, the market 

and/or shareholders in relation to the financial performance 
of the Barclays Group 

■■ a participant causing harm to Barclays' reputation or where 
his/her actions have amounted to misconduct, incompetence 
or negligence

■■ a material restatement of the financial statements of the 
Barclays Group or any subsidiary, or the Group or any 
business unit suffering a material downturn in its financial 
performance

■■ a material failure of risk management in the Barclays Group
■■ a significant deterioration in the financial health of the 

Barclays Group.

The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 
80% of Total fixed pay. For these purposes 
Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

The performance measures by which any 
executive Director's bonus is assessed include 
financial and non-financial measures which 
also include risk-related measures and personal 
objectives. In making its assessment of any 
bonus, the Committee will consider financial 
factors to guide at least 60% of the bonus 
opportunity. Any bonus is discretionary and 
any amount may be awarded from zero to the 
maximum value.

The Committee has the discretion to vary the 
measures and their respective weightings 
within each category. The measures and 
weightings will be disclosed annually as part of 
the Annual report on Directors' remuneration.

Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
110 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures

B. Variable pay continued

The clawback provisions enable amounts to be recovered 
after they have vested (for a period of seven years from 
grant/10 years in specified circumstances e.g. where a 
relevant investigation is ongoing at the end of the initial 
seven year period) in circumstances where (i) a participant's 
actions or omissions have amounted to misbehaviour or 
material error and/or (ii) Barclays or the relevant business 
unit has suffered a material failure of risk management.

Timing of receipt
Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid 
following the performance year to which they relate, normally 
in March. Non-deferred share bonuses are also awarded 
normally in March and are subject to a holding period (after 
the payment of tax) in line with regulations and with release 
no faster than permitted by regulations (currently minimum 
of six months, increasing to one year for the 2017 
performance year).

Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred 
shares vest faster than permitted by regulations (currently 
in five equal tranches with the first vesting on or around the 
third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on 
or around the seventh anniversary of grant). Vesting is 
also subject to the provisions of the plan rules including 
employment and the malus and clawback provisions (as 
explained above). Any shares that vest are subject to an 
additional holding period (after payment of tax) in line with 
regulations and with release no faster than permitted by 
regulations (currently minimum of six months, increasing 
to one year for the 2017 performance year). 

Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 111

Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures

B. Variable pay continued

Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) award
To reward execution of 
Barclays' strategy over a 
multi-year period

Long-term performance 
measurement, deferral and 
holding periods encourage a 
long-term view and align 
executive Directors' interests 
with those of shareholders. 
Malus and clawback provisions 
discourage excessive risk-
taking and inappropriate 
behaviours

Determination of LTIP award
LTIP awards are made by the Committee following discussion 
of recommendations made by the Chairman (for the Group 
Chief Executive's LTIP award) and by the Group Chief 
Executive (for other executive Directors' LTIP awards) based 
on satisfactory performance over the prior year. 

Delivery structure
LTIP awards are granted subject to the plan rules and are 
satisfied in Barclays' shares (although they may be satisfied 
in other instruments as may be required by regulation).

LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the 
annual bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred 
is no less than that required by regulations.

For each award, forward-looking performance measures 
are set at grant and there is no retesting allowed of those 
conditions. The Committee has, within the parameters 
set out opposite, the flexibility to vary the weighting of 
performance measures and calibration for each award 
prior to its grant.

The Committee has discretion, and in line with the plan rules 
approved by shareholders, in exceptional circumstances to 
amend targets, measures, or the number of awards if an 
event happens (for example, a major transaction) that, in  
the opinion of the Committee, causes the original targets or 
measures to be no longer appropriate or such adjustment  
to be reasonable. The Committee also has the discretion to 
reduce the vesting of any award, including to nil, if it deems 
that the outcome is not consistent with performance 
delivered.

Dividend equivalents, in the form of additional shares, are 
payable on the vested deferred shares, equal to the dividends 
paid or payable between the award date and the relevant 
release date. If dividend equivalents are not permissible 
under regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will 
be based on a share price discounted by reference to an 
expected dividend yield over the vesting period. In such 
circumstances, the Committee has discretion to reduce (not 
increase) the number of shares that vest if actual dividends 
paid over the period are materially lower than the original 
dividend assumption.

A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the 
purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent this is 
permitted by regulations (currently a discount is permitted on 
up to 25% of variable pay where the conditions for applying 
such a discount are met).

Operation of malus and clawback
The achievement of performance measures determines the 
extent to which LTIP awards will vest. Awards are also subject 
to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a period 
of seven years (10 years in specific circumstances) from the 
date of award which enables the Committee to reduce the 
vesting level of awards (including to nil). This is explained 
further in the annual bonus paragraphs above.

Timing of receipt
Barclays LTIP awards are structured so that no award vests 
before the third anniversary of grant and an award vests no 
faster than permitted by regulations (currently in five equal 
tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third 
anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around 
the seventh anniversary of the grant date). Any shares that 
vest are subject to an additional holding period (after payment 
of tax) in line with regulations, with restrictions lifting no faster 
than permitted by regulations (currently minimum of six 
months, increasing to one year for the 2017 performance year).

The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of 
Total fixed pay. For these purposes Total fixed 
pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

Vesting is dependent on performance 
measures and service. 

Forward-looking performance measures will  
be based on financial performance and other 
long-term strategic measures. The Committee 
has discretion to change the weightings but 
financial measures will be at least 70% of the 
total opportunity. Measures and weightings 
will be set in advance of each grant. The 
threshold and maximum level of performance 
for each financial performance measure will be 
disclosed annually as part of the Annual report 
on Directors' remuneration. Straight-line 
vesting applies between threshold and 
maximum for the financial measures and 
weightings with no more than 25% vesting  
at threshold performance.

Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
112 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures

C. Other

All employee share plans 
To provide an opportunity for 
executive Directors to 
voluntarily invest in the 
Company through UK HMRC 
employee tax advantaged 
share schemes

Executive Directors are entitled to participate in:

(i)  Barclays Sharesave under which they can make monthly 
savings over a period of three or five years linked to the 
grant of an option over Barclays' shares which can be at a 
discount of up to 20% on the share price set at the start.

(ii)  Barclays Sharepurchase under which they can make 
contributions (monthly or lump sum) out of pre-tax pay 
(if based in the UK) which are used to acquire Barclays' 
shares.

(i)   Savings between £5 and the maximum set 
by Barclays (which will be no more than the 
HMRC maximum) per month. There are no 
performance measures.

(ii)  Contributions of between £10 and the 
maximum set by Barclays (which will be no 
more than the HMRC maximum) per tax 
year which Barclays may match up to 
HMRC maximum (current match is £600). 
There are no performance measures.

Previous legacy awards
To honour existing awards and 
payments

Awards granted and/or payments agreed at a time where a 
previous policy, approved by shareholders, was in place, may 
be released and/or paid in accordance with such previous 
policy notwithstanding that such awards and/or payments 
may not be in line with the new policy described above.

In line with existing arrangements.

Shareholding requirement
To further enhance the 
alignment of shareholders' and 
executive Directors' interests in 
long-term value creation

Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of 
Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) within five years 
from the date of appointment as executive Director. They 
have a reasonable period to build up to this requirement 
again if it is not met because of a significant share price 
depreciation.

Executive Directors must also continue to hold a 
shareholding for two years post-termination as follows: 

(i)  if the executive Director has been employed for more than 
five years: 100% of Total fixed pay; or

(ii)  if the executive Director has been employed for less than 
five years: either

 (a)  grow their holding to the pro-rated requirement if the 
pro-rated requirement has not been met. Directors 
would only be allowed to sell shares to pay for tax 
liabilities which crystallise when deferred awards vest 
on or after termination; or

 (b)  if the pro-rated requirement has been exceeded, 
executive Directors would be allowed to sell shares 
above this requirement and also sell shares to pay for 
tax liabilities which crystallise when deferred awards 
vest on or after termination. 

Shares that count towards the requirement are beneficially 
owned shares including any vested share awards subject only 
to holding periods (including vested LTIPs, vested deferred 
share bonuses, Fixed Pay shares, and RBP shares). Shares 
from unvested deferred share bonuses and unvested LTIPs 
do not count towards the requirement.

Barclays' shares worth a minimum of 200% of 
Total fixed pay must be held within five years 
plus a shareholding of 100% of Total fixed pay 
(or pro-rata thereof) for two years post 
termination.

Outside appointments
To encourage self-development 
and allow for the introduction 
of external insight and practice

Executive Directors may accept one non-executive Director 
board appointment in another listed company.

The Chairman's approval must be sought before accepting 
an appointment. Fees may be retained by the executive 
Director. Neither of the executive Directors currently hold an 
outside appointment.

Not applicable.

Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 113

Notes to the table on pages 108 to 112
Performance measures and targets
The Committee selects financial performance measures which are fundamental to delivery against the Bank's strategy and are considered to be  
the most important financial measures used by the executive Directors to oversee the direction of the business. The non-financial performance 
measures and sources of data are chosen to represent key indicators of sustainable performance that are robustly monitored and reported on to 
management. The measures are determined in consultation with major shareholders.

Financial targets are set to be stretching but achievable and are aligned to enhancing shareholder value. In respect of the LTIP, the financial 
measures, weightings and targets will be disclosed at the start of the relevant performance period. In respect of the annual bonus, the financial 
measures and weightings will be disclosed at the start of the relevant performance year. The Committee is of the opinion that the financial targets 
for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive in respect of the Company and that it would be detrimental to disclose details at the start of the 
relevant performance year. Performance against the targets will be disclosed at the end of the relevant performance year in that year's remuneration 
report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.

The existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a ‘Performance Measurement' framework which better reflects progress towards our strategic and 
non-financial goals. Enhancements to the available sources of management information and reporting, ranging from internal dashboards to external 
third party measures, allows for a more holistic view of sustainable business performance, rather than focusing on a few narrowly defined targets. 
The evaluation will focus on key performance measures (many continuing from the Balanced Scorecard), with a detailed retrospective disclosure  
on progress throughout the period against each category, together with supporting rationale for payments.

Changes in remuneration policy for 2017
The following table provides a summary of the changes to the DRP for 2017:

Element Change Rationale for change

Fixed Pay ■■ Consolidate salary and RBP into a single ‘Fixed Pay' 
element (delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject 
to a 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata).

■■ Fixed Pay will not change during the policy period for 
either of the current executive Directors.

■■ Simplicity, transparency.

Pension ■■ Continue pension allowance as a separate allowance:
 – for existing executive Directors, amount unchanged 
but fixed for the duration of this policy

 – for new hires, pension allowance limited to 10% of 
Fixed Pay.

■■ Supports simplified approach to Fixed Pay

Variable pay ■■ Combine annual bonus and LTIP for deferral purposes, 
while retaining maximum variable at 200% of Total 
fixed pay and 60:40 split between maximum LTIP and 
annual bonus.

■■ Performance measures
 – Bonus: financial performance measures at least 60%.
 – LTIP: financial performance measures at least 70%.

■■ Dividends
 – Where regulatory constraints prevent dividend 
alignment, use discounted share price to calculate 
number of shares under award.

 – Committee has discretion to reduce the number of 
shares that vest if actual dividends paid are materially 
lower than original dividend assumption.

■■ Mitigates the global competitive impact 
of longer deferral periods and holding 
periods under the PRA Remuneration 
Rules and the EBA Guidelines on sound 
remuneration policies.

■■ Simplicity, transparency.

■■ Recreates shareholder alignment lost 
through regulatory dividend prohibition.

Shareholding requirement ■■ Increase requirement to 200% of Total fixed pay  
(i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) from 400% of salary. 

■■ Introduce shareholding requirement of 2 years post 
termination of 100% of Total fixed pay (or pro-rata 
thereof).

■■ Longer and stronger shareholder alignment 
(equivalent to 457% of salary for CEO).

Employment contracts ■■ For new hires, 6 months' notice from the Company  
and 6 months' notice from the executive Director.

■■ Remove asymmetry for notice periods.
■■ Alignment between the employee and 

the Company.

Leavers ■■ Apply eligible leaver treatment to deferred bonus and LTIP 
awards from 5 years (except for termination for gross 
misconduct). Ability to apply malus for the full vesting 
period maintained.

■■ Pro-ration of LTIP for eligible leavers retained but based on 
4 year performance period, i.e. includes assessment period 
prior to grant.

■■ Clawback extended to 10 years in specific circumstances.

■■ Partially mitigates the global competitive 
impact of longer deferral periods (increasing 
from 3 years to 7 years) and holding periods 
under the PRA Remuneration Rules and the 
EBA Guidelines respectively.

■■ Alignment to the EBA Guidelines for 
performance assessment prior to award.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
114 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Differences between the remuneration policy of the executive Directors and the policy for all employees of the Barclays Group
The structure of remuneration packages for executive Directors is closely aligned with that for the broader employee population. Employees 
receive salary, pension and benefits and are eligible to be considered for a bonus and to participate in all-employee share plans. The broader 
employee population typically does not have a contractual limit on the quantum of remuneration and does not receive RBP which is paid only 
to some, but not all, MRTs and other senior employees. Under the new DRP, executive Directors do not receive RBP.

As with executive Directors, variable pay for the broader employee population is performance based. Variable pay for executive Directors and the 
broader employee population is subject to deferral requirements. Executive Directors and other MRTs are subject to deferral at a minimum rate of 
40% (for variable pay of less than £500,000) or 60% (for variable pay between £500,000 and £1,000,000) or 60% up to £1,000,000 and 100% 
above £1,000,000 (for variable pay of more than £1,000,000). For non-MRTs, bonuses in excess of £65,000 are currently subject to a graduated 
level of deferral. The terms of deferred bonus awards for executive Directors and the wider employee population are broadly the same, in particular 
the vesting of all deferred bonuses (subject to service and malus conditions).

The broader employee population does not currently participate in the Barclays LTIP.

How shareholder views and broader employee pay are taken into account by the Committee in setting policy and making remuneration decisions
We recognise that remuneration is an area of particular interest to shareholders and that in setting and considering changes to remuneration it 
is critical that we listen to and take into account their views. Accordingly, a series of meetings are held each year with major shareholders and 
shareholder representative groups. The Committee Chairman attends these meetings, accompanied by senior Barclays' employees (including 
the Group Reward and Performance Director and the Company Secretary). The Committee notes that shareholder views on some matters are not 
always unanimous, but values the insight and engagement that these interactions provide, including the expression of sometimes different views. 
This engagement is meaningful and helpful to the Committee in its work and contributes directly to the decisions made by the Committee. 
Shareholders' feedback has been incorporated into the new DRP.

The Committee takes account of the pay and employment conditions of the broader employee base when it considers the remuneration of the 
executive Directors. The Committee receives and reviews analyses of summary remuneration proposals for employees across all of the Group's 
businesses. When the Committee considers executive Directors' remuneration, it therefore makes that consideration in the context of a detailed 
understanding of remuneration for the broader employee population to ensure consistency throughout the Group. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 115

Executive Directors' policy on recruitment 
Barclays operates in a highly specialised sector and many of its competitors for talent are outside of the UK. The Committee's approach to 
remuneration on recruitment is to pay no more than is necessary to attract the best candidates to the role.

Approval of the remuneration packages offered on appointment to any new executive Director is a specific requirement of the Committee's Terms of 
Reference. The terms of such packages must be approved by the Committee in consultation with the Chairman and (except for the terms of his own 
remuneration) the Group Chief Executive. 

Any new executive Director's package would include the same elements as those of the existing executive Directors, as shown below. 

Element of remuneration Commentary Maximum value

Fixed Pay Determined by experience, market practice, market 
conditions and ability to recruit. 

As determined by the Committee with 
reference to these factors. Fixed Pay will only 
exceed amounts paid to current executive 
Directors, as considered reasonable by the 
Committee, by reference to these factors.

If on appointment Fixed Pay is equal to or 
greater than maximum stated for the relevant 
role in the policy (for current executive 
Director), no changes are allowed over the 
policy period. 

If on appointment Fixed Pay is at a level below 
the maximum stated for the relevant role  
in the policy (for current executive Director), 
the Committee retains the discretion to realign 
Fixed Pay over a transitional period which may 
mean that annual Fixed Pay increases for the 
new appointee are required up to such 
maximum amounts.

Pension In line with policy. 10% of Fixed Pay.

Benefits In line with policy. In line with policy.

Annual Bonus In line with policy. 80% of Total fixed pay.

Long Term Incentive Plan In line with policy. 120% of Total fixed pay.

Buy-out The Committee can consider buying out forfeited bonus 
opportunity or incentive awards that the new executive 
Director has forfeited as a result of accepting the 
appointment with Barclays, subject to proof of forfeiture 
where applicable. 

As required by the PRA Remuneration Rules, any award 
made to compensate for forfeited remuneration from the 
new executive Director's previous employment may not be 
more generous than, and must mirror as far as possible 
the expected value, timing and form of delivery of, the 
terms of the forfeited remuneration and must be in the 
best long-term interests of Barclays. Barclays' deferral 
policy shall however apply as a minimum to any buy-out 
of annual bonus opportunity.

The value of any buy-out is not included within 
the maximum incentive levels above since 
it relates to a buy-out of forfeited bonus 
opportunity or incentive awards from 
a previous employer.

Where a senior executive is promoted to the Board, his or her existing contractual commitments agreed prior to his or her appointment may  
still be honoured in accordance with the terms of the relevant commitment including vesting of any pre-existing deferred bonus or long-term 
incentive awards.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
116 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Executive Directors' policy on payment for loss of office (including or following a takeover)
The Committee's approach to payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason  
for termination, individual performance, contractual obligations and the terms of the deferred bonus plans and LTIPs in which the executive  
Director participates.

Provisions relating to executive Directors' termination

Standard provision Policy Details

Notice periods in executive 
Directors' service contracts

For existing executive Directors, 12 months' notice from the 
Company and six months' notice from the executive Director.

For new executive Director hires, six months' notice from the 
Company and six months' notice from the executive Director.

Executive Directors may be required to work 
during the notice period or may be placed on 
garden leave or, if not required to work the full 
notice period, may be provided with pay in lieu 
of notice (subject to mitigation where 
relevant).

Pay during notice period  
or payment in lieu of notice 
per service contracts

Fixed Pay payable and continuation of pension and other 
contractual benefits while an employee during notice period.

Fixed Pay delivered in cash is payable in phased 
instalments (or lump sum) and subject to 
mitigation if paid in instalments and executive 
Director obtains alternative employment during 
the notice period or while on garden leave.

Fixed Pay delivered in shares is delivered on the 
next quarterly delivery date and is pro-rated for 
the number of days from the start of the 
relevant quarter to the termination date. Where 
Barclays elects to terminate the employment 
with immediate effect by making a payment in 
lieu of notice, the executive Director will not 
receive any shares that would otherwise have 
been payable during the period for which the 
payment in lieu is made (unless required 
otherwise by regulations or local law).

In the event of termination for gross 
misconduct neither notice nor payment  
in lieu of notice is given.

Treatment of annual bonus  
on termination

No automatic entitlement to bonus on termination, but may 
be considered at the Committee's discretion, pro-rated for 
service, and subject to performance measures being met. 
No bonus would be payable in the case of gross misconduct 
or resignation.

Treatment of unvested 
deferred bonus awards

In the case of death or if the executive Director is an ‘eligible 
leaver' the executive Director would continue to be eligible  
to be considered for unvested portions of deferred awards, 
subject to the rules of the relevant plan, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise in exceptional 
circumstances. ‘Eligible leaver' is defined as leaving due to 
injury, disability or ill health, retirement, redundancy, the 
business or company which employs the executive Director 
ceasing to be part of the Group or the employer terminating 
employment, other than in circumstances which amount to 
gross misconduct or dismissal for cause. In addition, the 
Committee will apply its discretion to treat resignation on  
or after the fifth anniversary of the date of grant as ‘eligible 
leaver' status. Outstanding deferred bonus awards would 
lapse if the executive Director leaves by reason of resignation 
prior to fifth anniversary, is terminated for gross misconduct 
or cause, or is otherwise not designated an ‘eligible leaver'.

Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions which 
enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred 
bonuses (including to nil) and once vested are subject to 
clawback provisions (as described above).

In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event, the 
Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether all 
outstanding awards would vest early or whether they should 
continue in the same or revised form following the change of 
control. The Committee may also determine that participants 
may exchange existing awards for awards over shares in an 
acquiring company with the agreement of that company.

In an ‘eligible leaver' situation, deferred bonus 
awards may be considered for release in full  
on the scheduled release dates unless the 
Committee determines otherwise in 
exceptional circumstances. After release, the 
shares are subject to an additional holding 
period in line with regulations (currently 
minimum of six months, increasing to one  
year for the 2017 performance year).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 117

Standard provision Policy Details

Treatment of unvested awards 
under the LTIP

In the case of death or if the executive Director is an ‘eligible 
leaver' the executive Director would continue to be entitled  
to be considered for an award. ‘Eligible leaver' is defined as 
leaving due to injury, disability or ill health, retirement, 
redundancy, the business or company which employs the 
executive Director ceasing to be part of the Group or for any 
other reason if the Committee decides at its discretion. In 
addition, the Committee will apply its discretion to treat 
resignation on or after the fifth anniversary of the date of 
grant as ‘eligible leaver' status. Outstanding unvested awards 
under the LTIP would lapse if the executive Director leaves by 
reason of resignation prior to fifth anniversary, is terminated 
for gross misconduct, or is otherwise not designated an 
‘eligible leaver'.

Awards are subject to malus provisions which enable the 
Committee to reduce the vesting level of awards (including 
to nil) and once vested, awards are subject to clawback 
provisions (as described above).

In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event  
(but excluding an internal reorganisation of the Group), the 
Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether all 
outstanding awards vest subject to the achievement of any 
performance conditions. The Committee has discretion to 
apply a pro-rata reduction to reflect the unexpired part of the 
vesting period. The Committee may also determine that 
participants may exchange awards for awards over shares in 
an acquiring company with the agreement of that company. 
In the event of an internal reorganisation, the Committee may 
determine that outstanding awards will be exchanged for 
equivalent awards in another company.

In an ‘eligible leaver' situation, awards may be 
considered for release on the scheduled release 
dates, pro-rated for time (over the whole 
performance period, including the assessment 
period prior to grant for awards granted on or 
after 10 May 2017) and performance, subject 
to the Committee's discretion to determine 
otherwise in exceptional circumstances, in 
accordance with the plan rules, as amended 
from time to time. After release, the shares 
(net of deductions for tax) are subject to an 
additional holding period (currently minimum 
of six months, increasing to one year for the 
2017 performance year).

Repatriation Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation,  
where an executive Director has been relocated at the 
commencement of employment, the Company may pay 
for the executive Director's repatriation costs in line with 
Barclays' general employee mobility policy including 
temporary accommodation, payment of removal costs and 
relocation flights for the executive Director, spouse and 
children. The Company will pay the executive Director's tax 
on the relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also 
not pay tax on his or her other income relating to the 
termination of employment.

Other Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, the 
Company may pay for the executive Director's legal fees and 
tax advice relating to the termination of employment and 
provide outplacement services. The Company may pay the 
executive Director's tax on these particular costs.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
118 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Illustrative scenarios for executive Directors' remuneration
The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors' 2017 total remuneration under the new DRP in three scenarios: 
‘Minimum' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension and benefits), ‘Maximum' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded) 
and ‘Mid-point' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and 50% of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded). For the purposes of these charts, the 
value of benefits is based on an estimated annual value for 2017. The scenarios do not reflect share price movement between award and vesting.

A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance-related. It is also subject  
to deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.

Minimum Mid-point Maximum

Total remuneration opportunity: Group Chief Executive (£m)

9

7.5

6

4.5

3

1.5

0

Total 2.91

Total 5.66

Total 8.41

Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits LTIPBonus

10%

21%

7%

29%
26%

14%

40%

20%
21% 14%

39%

19%

40%

Minimum Mid-point Maximum

Total remuneration opportunity: Group Finance Director (£m)

9

7.5

6

4.5

3

1.5

0

Total 5.59
39%

15%

12% 6% 4%
Total 1.89

Total 3.74

22%

29%

44%

20%

22%

30%

44%

20%

15%

40%

26%

Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits LTIPBonus

In the above illustrative scenarios, benefits include regular contractual benefits. Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas relocation 
of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 119

Remuneration policy for non-executive Directors  
This section provides details of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive Directors.

Element and purpose Operation Maximum value

Fees
Reflect individual responsibilities 
and membership of Board 
Committees and are set to 
attract non-executive Directors 
who have relevant skills and 
experience to oversee the 
implementation of our strategy

Fees are set at a level which 
reflects the role, responsibilities 
and time commitment which 
are expected from the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman 
and non-executive Directors

The Chairman and Deputy Chairman are paid an 
all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities. The 
Chairman has a minimum time commitment 
equivalent to at least 80% of a full-time role. The 
other non-executive Directors receive a basic Board 
fee, with additional fees payable where individuals 
serve as a member or Chairman of a Committee of 
the Board. 

Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole.

£30,000 (Chairman: £100,000) after tax and  
national insurance contributions per annum of  
each non-executive Director's basic fee is used to 
purchase Barclays' shares which are retained on the 
non-executive Director's behalf until they retire from 
the Board.

Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees 
as directors of subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC. 
In the case of certain subsidiary appointments, such 
additional remuneration is approved by the Board 
Nominations Committee. 

Fees are reviewed against those for non-executive 
Directors in companies of similar size and complexity. 
Other than in exceptional circumstances, fees will not 
increase by more than 20% above the current fee 
levels during this policy period (basic fees last 
increased in 2011).

Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the terms of the Barclays' scheme rules from 
time to time, and is provided with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business 
purposes. 

Benefits which are minor in nature and in any event do not exceed a cost of £500 may be provided to 
non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.

Non-executive Directors are not eligible to join Barclays' pension plans.

Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any reasonable and appropriate expenses 
incurred for business reasons. Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.

Bonus and share plans The Chairman is required to be eligible to participate in HMRC employee tax advantaged share schemes, due 
to his 80% of a full-role time commitment, but has opted not to participate. The Chairman is not eligible to 
participate in any other Barclays' cash, share or long-term incentive plans.

All other non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in Barclays' cash, share or long-term incentive 
plans.

Notice and termination 
provisions

Each non-executive Director's appointment is for an initial six year term, renewable at Barclays' discretion for  
a single term of three years thereafter and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.

Notice period
Chairman: 12 months from the Company (six months from the Chairman). Non-executive Directors: six 
months from the Company (six months from the non-executive Director).

Termination payment policy 
The Chairman's appointment may be terminated by Barclays on 12 months' notice or immediately in which 
case 12 months' fees and contractual benefits are payable in instalments at the times they would have been 
received had the appointment continued, but subject to mitigation if he or she were to obtain alternative 
employment. There are similar termination provisions for non-executive Directors based on 6 months' fees.  
No continuing payments of fees (or benefits) are due if a non-executive Director is not re-elected by 
shareholders at the Barclays AGM.

In accordance with the policy table above, any new Chairman and Deputy Chairman would be paid an all-inclusive fee only and any new 
non-executive Director would be paid a basic fee for their appointment as a non-executive Director, plus fees for their participation on and/or chairing 
of any Board committees, time apportioned in the first year as necessary. No sign-on payments are offered to non-executive Directors.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
120 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Directors' remuneration policy

Service contracts and letters of appointment 
All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment. Copies of the service contracts  
and letters of appointment respectively are available for inspection at the Company's registered office. The dates of the current Directors' service 
contracts and letters of appointment are shown in the table below.

Effective date

Chairman
John McFarlane 1 January 2015 (non-executive Director), 24 April 2015 (Chairman)
Executive Directors
Jes Staley 1 December 2015
Tushar Morzaria 15 October 2013
Non-executive Directors
Michael Ashley 18 September 2013
Tim Breedon 1 November 2012
Mary Francis 1 October 2016
Crawford Gillies 1 May 2014
Sir Gerry Grimstone 1 January 2016
Reuben Jeffery III 16 July 2009
Dambisa Moyo 1 May 2010
Diane de Saint Victor 1 March 2013
Diane Schueneman 25 June 2015
Steve Thieke 7 January 2014

All Directors are put forward for re-election at each AGM, unless they have indicated that they will not seek re-election at the AGM. 

Discretion
In addition to the various operational discretions that the Committee can exercise in the performance of its duties (including those discretions set 
out in the Company's share plans), the Committee reserves the right to make either minor or administrative amendments to the policy to benefit its 
operation or to make more material amendments in order to comply with new laws, regulations and/or regulatory guidance. The Committee would 
only exercise this right if it believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so and where it is not possible, practicable or proportionate to 
seek or await shareholder approval in General Meeting.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 121

Executive Directors
Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 remuneration (audited)
The following table shows a single total figure for 2016 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director  
together with comparative figures for 2015.

Salary
£000

Role Based Pay
£000

Taxable benefits
£000

Annual bonus
£000

LTIP
£000

Pension
£000

Total
£000

2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 
Jes Staleya 1,200 100 1,150  96 169 48 1,318 – – – 396  33 4,233  277
Tushar Morzaria 800 800 750 750 44 82 854 701 1,008 – 200 200 3,656 2,533

Note
a The 2015 figures for Jes Staley relate to the period from 1 December 2015 when he joined the Board as Group Chief Executive.

Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors (audited)
Salary
Jes Staley has been paid a salary of £1,200,000 per annum since his appointment to the Group Chief Executive role on 1 December 2015.  
Tushar Morzaria was paid a salary of £800,000 per annum as Group Finance Director.

Role Based Pay (RBP)
Executive Directors received RBP which was delivered quarterly in shares, subject to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years  
(20% each year). The value shown is of shares at the date awarded.

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a  
Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.

Annual bonus
Annual bonuses are discretionary and are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate. The Committee considered the 
executive Directors' performance against the financial (50% weighting) and Balanced Scorecard (35% weighting) performance measures which  
had been set to reflect strategic priorities for 2016. Performance against their individual personal objectives (15% weighting) was assessed on an 
individual basis.

2016 annual bonus outcomes

Financial (50% weighting)
The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures is based on a straight-line outcome between 25%  
for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance.

The formulaic outcome from 2016 performance against the financial measures gave a total of 29% out of 50% being payable attributable to those 
measures. A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.

Financial 
performance measure Weighting

Threshold 
25% 

 Maximum 
100%

2016
Actual

2016 
Outcome

Profit before tax (excluding notable items) 20% £3.45bn £4.20bn £3.65bn  9%
Costs (excluding notable items) 10% £14.6bn  £13.7bn  £15.3bn  0%
CET1 ratio 20% 11.1% 11.6%  12.4%  20%
Total Financial 50%  29%

When reflecting upon the appropriate 2016 bonus, the Committee considered the impact of the deferral changes on the formulaic outcomes against 
the financial measures. In particular, the Committee noted that while the decision to accelerate the deferral charges would improve the Group's 
operational flexibility going into 2017 and beyond, it would also lead to a lower 2016 bonus outcome than could have been justified absent the 
changes. However, on balance, the Committee felt that the overall outcomes were appropriate particularly given the ongoing focus to rebalance 
towards improving shareholder returns.

Balanced Scorecard (35% weighting)
Progress in relation to each of the 5Cs of the Balanced Scorecard was assessed by the Committee. The Committee took a similar approach as for 
2015 i.e. based on a three-point scale in relation to each measure, with 0% to 2% for ‘below' target, 3% or 4% for a ‘met' target, and 5% to 7%  
for ‘above' target progress against a particular Balanced Scorecard component.

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

This section explains how our Directors' remuneration policy was implemented during 2016.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
122 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Based on this approach to assessing performance against 2016 Balanced Scorecard milestones, the Committee agreed a 18% outcome out of a 
maximum of 35%. A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table. Further details in respect of performance in each category can  
be found on pages 16 to 17.

Balanced Scorecard – 5Cs Weighting Metric
2016

Target
2016

Actual

2016
Outcome out 
of maximum 

7% for each ‘C'
Customer and Client 7% PCB, Barclaycard and Africa Banking weighted 

average ranking of RNPS v peer sets
4th 4th 4%

Client Franchise Risk 6th 5th
Colleague 7% Sustained engagement of colleagues' score 77-79% 75% 3%

% women in senior leadership 24% 24%
Citizenship 7% Citizenship Plan – initiatives on track or ahead Plan targets 8/10 5%
Conduct 7% Conduct Reputation (YouGov Survey) 5.5-5.6/10 5.4/10 2%
Companya 7% Return on tangible equityb 4.8% 4.4%
 Cost: Income ratiob,c 70% 72% 4%

CET1 ratio 11.3% 12.4%
Total Balanced Scorecard 35% 18%

Notes
a Company metrics have been updated to reflect the 1 March 2016 strategy announcement.
b Excluding notable items. 
c  Cost:Income ratio expressed as total operating expenses of the Group, including Africa, divided by the total income of these businesses.

Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives
Performance against each of the executive Directors' individual personal objectives (15% weighting overall) was assessed by the Committee  
on an individual basis.

(i) Jes Staley
A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.

Performance measure Weighting Outcome
Financial See table on page 121 50% 29%
Balanced Scorecard – 5Cs See table above 35% 18%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment – see below 15% 13%
Total 100% 60%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 60%

The Committee assessed Jes Staley's performance against his 2016 personal objectives (as set out on page 97 of the 2015 Annual Report) and 
concluded that Jes Staley had delivered a very strong performance throughout the year. By the end of 2016, a clear new strategy was firmly 
embedded and a new Core organisational structure consistent with structural reform has been implemented. The Core businesses have performed 
well, delivering improved profitability and cost income efficiency. At the same time significant progress has been made in exiting the Non-Core 
businesses. Jes Staley has demonstrated strong leadership, strengthened the management team and has instilled a more effective performance 
ethic and culture within the organisation. Given his very strong personal performance, the Committee judged that 13% of a maximum of 15% 
attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity being 
achieved. The resulting 2016 bonus is £1,318,000 of which 70% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from the 
third to seventh anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time).

(ii) Tushar Morzaria
A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.

Performance measure Weighting Outcome
Financial See table on page 121 50% 29%
Balanced Scorecard – 5Cs See table above 35% 18%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment – see below 15% 14%
Total 100% 61%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 61%

The Committee assessed Tushar Morzaria's performance against his 2016 personal objectives (as set out on page 97 of the 2015 Annual Report)  
and concluded that Tushar Morzaria had delivered an outstanding performance in 2016. In doing so, the Committee noted the role provided by 
Tushar Morzaria in reshaping the business and, in particular, recognised his contribution in the significant progress in exiting Non-Core, resulting in a 
reduction of £22bn in Risk Weighted Assets and his focus in delivering an organisation with a significantly higher CET1 ratio and lower Cost:Income 
ratio. In doing so, it was also noted that Tushar Morzaria has continued to develop very strong working relationships with shareholders, investors 
and regulators, while also improving the performance delivery within the Finance Functions. Given his exceptional personal performance during 2016, 
the Committee judged that 14% of a maximum of 15% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 61% of maximum bonus opportunity 
being achieved. The resulting 2016 bonus is £854,000 of which 60% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from 
the third to seventh anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time).

All shares (whether deferred or not) are subject to a further six month holding period from the point of release. 2016 bonuses are subject to clawback 
provisions and, additionally, unvested deferred 2016 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level 
of deferred bonuses (including to nil).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 123

LTIP
The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzaria's 2016 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP 
award granted in 2014 in respect of performance period 2014-2016 (by reference to Q4 2016 average share price). As Jes Staley was not a participant 
in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him. Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over the period from 
1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016. Straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the RoRWA and loan 
loss rate measures. The performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual % of award vesting
Return on risk weighted assets 
(RoRWA)

50% 23% of award vests for 
average annual RoRWA 
of 1.08%

Average annual RoRWA 
of 1.52%

0.33% 0%

Loan loss rate 20% 7% of award vests for 
average annual loan loss 
rate of 70bps

Average annual loan loss 
rate of 55bps or below

50bps 20%

Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard was 
assessed by the Committee to determine the 
percentage of the award that may vest between 0% 
and 30%. Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced Scorecard 
has equal weighting.

See below 14%

Total 34%

A summary of the Committee's assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period 
is provided below.

Category Performance

Vesting out of 
maximum 6% 
for each ‘C'

Customer and Client ■■ Net Promoter Score (NPS) performance against peers was 4th during the period. Across key 
product categories, notably UK current accounts and UK credit cards, Barclays' NPS scores 
have improved with more customers advocating our brands. 

■■ Client Franchise Rank remained stable at 5th rank throughout the period, a positive result 
given the shift in strategy to focus on geographies and businesses of strength in the 
Investment Bank.

3%

Colleague ■■ Continued improvement in the female representation across our senior leadership, rising 
from 22% in 2014 to 24% at the end of 2016. 

■■ Colleague engagement improved from 72% in 2014 to 75% overall in 2016, a positive result 
in light of the change the organisation has undergone over the period. 

3%

Citizenship ■■ Continuing on from the successful Citizenship Plan, which closed 2015 with 10 out of 11 
initiatives on or ahead of target, Barclays Group (ex Africa) exceeded objectives on all 6 
initiatives in the first year of the Shared Growth Ambition.

■■ Barclays Africa also delivered strong performance on ‘investment in education' and ‘SME 
financing', both of which were on track for 2016. Two objectives were off-track due to 
external challenges which impacted the delivery of planned employability and financial 
inclusion interventions (although foundations are now established which will enable strong 
2017 momentum).

4%

Conduct ■■ Conduct Reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, remained at or below 5.4 over 
the period.

■■ However, new conduct items and costs have reduced.

1%

Company ■■ The CET1 ratio has strengthened significantly over the period, to 12.4% at the end of 2016. 
■■ However, returns excluding notable items (both RoE and RoTE) were below target through 

much of the period.

3%

Total 14%

The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the 
Group based on profit before tax. The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be 
considered for release to the extent of 34% of the maximum number of shares under the total award. The shares are scheduled to be released in 
March 2017. After release, the shares are subject to an additional two year holding period.

Pension
Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions. The cash allowance in 2016 was 33% of salary for Jes Staley and 25% of salary  
for Tushar Morzaria. No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays' pension plans.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
124 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Executive Directors: other LTIP awards
The Directors' remuneration reporting regulations require inclusion in the single total figure of only the value of the LTIP awards whose last year  
of performance ends in the relevant financial year and whose vesting outcome is known. For 2016, this is the award to Tushar Morzaria under the 
2014-2016 LTIP cycle and further details are set out on page 123. This section sets out other LTIP cycles in which the executive Directors participate, 
the outcome of which remains dependent on future performance.

LTIP awards to be granted during 2017
The Committee decided to make an award under the 2017-2019 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria (based on their performance in 2016)
with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2016.

The 2017-2019 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Return on tangible equity (RoTE) 
excluding notable items

25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE 
excluding notable items of 7.5%

Average RoTE excluding notable items 
of 9.5%

CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest. 
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory 
requirements (11% on 31 December 2017)

CET1 ratio as at 31December 2019 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio  
100 basis points above the mandatory 
distribution restrictions hurdle (MDRH)

CET1 ratio 200 basis points above 
the MDRH

Cost:Income ratio 
excluding notable items

20% 5% of award vests for average 
Cost:Income ratio of 63%

Average Cost:Income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk 
adjustment framework agreed with the PRA. The current framework measures 
performance against three broad categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment 
and Conduct – using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics. The framework 
may be updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk strategy. Specific targets 
within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective 
disclosure of performance will be made in the 2019 Remuneration report.

Strategic/Non-financial 15% As noted on page 18, the existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a ‘Performance 
Measurement' framework in line with the objective of delivering a simplified Barclays 
through the strategic actions announced in March 2016. The evaluation will focus on key 
performance measures (many continuing from the Balanced Scorecard), with a detailed 
retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Performance against the Strategic/Non-financial measures will be assessed by the 
Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. 
The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague 
and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. Measures will likely 
include, but not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares 

for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending 
provided to customers and clients.

■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), 
Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures.

■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in 
Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures. The award is subject to a discretionary 
underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.

Outstanding LTIP awards
(i) LTIP awards granted during 2015
The performance measures for the awards made under the 2015-2017 LTIP cycle are shown below.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Net generated equitya 30% 7.5% of award vests for Net generated equity 

of £1,363m
Net generated equity of £1,844m

Core return on risk weighted assets 
(RoRWA) excluding own credit

20% 5% of award vests for average annual Core 
RoRWA of 1.34%

Average annual Core RoRWA of 1.81%

Non-Core drag on return on equity 
(RoE) excluding notable items

10% 2.5% of award vests for Non-Core drag on 
RoE of –4.02%

Non-Core drag on RoE of –2.97%

Loan loss rate 10% 2.5% of award vests for average annual loan 
loss rate of 70bps

Average annual loan loss rate of 55bps 
or below

Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine 
the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 30%. Each of the 5Cs in the 
Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting. The targets within each of the 5Cs are deemed 
to be commercially sensitive. However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and 
performance against them will be made in the 2017 Remuneration report subject 
to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining. 

Note
a Net generated equity is a metric which converts changes in the CET1 ratio into an absolute capital equivalent measure. For remuneration purposes, net generated equity will exclude 

inorganic actions such as rights issues, as determined by the Committee.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial and risk measures. The award is subject to a 
discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 125

(ii) LTIP awards granted during 2016
An award was made to Tushar Morzaria on 14 March 2016 under the 2016-2018 LTIP cycle at a share price on the date of grant of £1.6535, in 
accordance with our Directors' remuneration policy. This is the price used to calculate the face value below. Jes Staley was not eligible for a grant 
under the 2016-2018 LTIP cycle.

% of 
fixed pay

Number 
of shares

Face value
at grant

Performance 
period

Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,270,033 £2,100,000 2016-2018

The performance measures for the 2016-2018 LTIP awards are as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Return on tangible equity (RoTE) 
excluding notable items

25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE of 
7.5%

Average RoTE of 10.0%

CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.  
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory 
requirements (11% on 31 December 2017)

CET1 ratio as at 31 December 2018 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of 11.6% CET1 ratio of 12.7%
Cost:Income ratio excluding 
notable items

20% 5% of award vests for average Cost:Income 
ratio of 66%

Average Cost:Income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input from 
the Group Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee as 
appropriate, to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 
15%. The Risk Scorecard measures performance against three broad categories – Risk 
Profile (including Conduct), Control Environment and Risk Capability – using a combination 
of quantitative and qualitative metrics. Specific targets within each of the categories are 
deemed to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure of performance will be made 
in the 2018 Remuneration report subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.

Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine 
the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. Each of the 5Cs in the 
Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting. Assessment will be made against progress 
towards the 2018 targets.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures. The award is subject to a discretionary 
underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group. 

Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2017
The executive Directors' package for 2017, in line with the new DRP, will be implemented with effect from the 2017 AGM as follows:

Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Comments

Fixed Pay £2,350,000 £1,650,000 ‘Fixed Pay' replaces salary and Role Based Pay. Fixed Pay 
delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares (subject to 5 year 
holding period lifting pro rata).

No change in Fixed Pay from 2016 for Jes Staley.

Fixed Pay has increased to £1,650,000 from £1,550,000  
for Tushar Morzaria.

Pension £396,000 £200,000 No change from 2016.

Maximum Bonus 80% of Total fixed paya 80% of Total fixed paya Total variable opportunity unchanged.
Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory deferral purposes.

Maximum LTIP 120% of Total fixed paya 120% of Total fixed paya

Note:
a Total fixed pay is defined as Fixed Pay plus Pension.

In considering the appropriate level of Tushar Morzaria's Total fixed pay (Fixed Pay plus Pension), the Committee took account of the time he has 
been in role without any increase (over three years), his strong performance and importance to the organisation, and industry market rates for the 
role. The Committee concluded that an increase of 5.7%, being less than the increase paid to UK employees over the same period, was warranted 
but agreed that the executive Directors would not be eligible for any further increase in the next three years (i.e. during the new policy period).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
126 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Clawback and malus
Barclays may apply clawback if at any time during the seven year period from the date on which any variable remuneration is awarded: (i) there is 
reasonable evidence of individual misbehaviour or material error, and/or (ii) the firm suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of 
the individual's proximity to, and responsibility for, that incident. For variable remuneration awards granted to executive Directors in respect of 2016 
onwards, the clawback period may be extended to 10 years in circumstances where the Company or a regulatory authority has commenced an 
investigation which could potentially lead to the application of clawback.

Malus provisions will continue to apply to unvested deferred awards.

Deferral
A seven year deferral period (with no vesting prior to the third anniversary of award, and vesting in equal tranches between the third and seventh 
year) will apply to any 2017 deferred variable remuneration awarded to the executive Directors.

2017 Annual bonus performance measures
Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support the 
key strategic objectives of the Company. The performance measures and weightings are shown below.

Financial (60% weighting)

A performance target range has 
been set for each financial 
measure.

■■ Profit before tax excluding notable items (22.5% weighting)
■■ Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items (15% weighting)
■■ CET1 ratio (22.5% weighting)

Strategic/Non-financial (20% 
weighting)

■■ As noted on page 18, the existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a ‘Performance Measurement' 
framework in line with the objective of delivering a simplified Barclays through the strategic actions 
announced in March 2016. Enhancements to the available sources of management information and 
reporting, ranging from internal dashboards to external third party measures, allow for a more holistic  
view of sustainable business performance, rather than focusing on a few narrowly defined targets. 
The evaluation will focus on key performance measures (many continuing from the Balanced Scorecard), 
with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.

■■ Performance against the Strategic/Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine 
the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 20%. The measures are organised around 
three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories 
has equal weighting. Measures will likely include, but not be limited to, the following: 
 – Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and 

Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients.
 – Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee sustainable 
engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures.

 – Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities 
and external benchmarks and surveys.

Personal (20% weighting) The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2017:
■■ deliver on 2017 financial commitments including continued improvement in RoTE, Cost:Income ratio and 

continued build-up of our capital base (CET1 ratio)
■■ exit Non-Core and ensure successful reintegration of remaining assets/businesses into Core
■■ achieve the sell-down of Barclays Africa Group Ltd to obtain accounting deconsolidation
■■ ensure successful implementation of the 2017 Structural Reform programme, including creation of the 

Service Company
■■ identify and implement as far as possible in 2017 a structural solution to ensure continued access to the 

single market in Europe
■■ manage risk and control effectively and make continued progress in resolving legacy conduct and litigation matters.

In addition, individual personal objectives for 2017 are as follows:

Jes Staley:
■■ make continued progress towards a high performing culture in line with our Values while also strengthening 

employee engagement
■■ improve customer and client satisfaction while reducing the number of overall complaints
■■ strengthen succession planning pipeline for Group and Business Unit/Functional Executive Committees  

and continue to improve percentage of women in senior leadership positions

■■ improve the Group's control environment and its operations and technology infrastructure.

Tushar Morzaria:
■■ demonstrate effective management of external relationships and reputation
■■ continue to strengthen team performance, talent pipeline and employee engagement in Group Finance,  

Tax and Treasury.

Detailed calibration of the Financial and Strategic targets is commercially sensitive and it is not appropriate to disclose this information externally on 
a prospective basis. Disclosure of achievement will be made in the 2017 Annual Report subject to the targets no longer being commercially sensitive. 
The Committee may exercise its discretion to amend the formulaic outcome of assessment against the targets. Any exercise of discretion will be 
disclosed and explained.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 127

Performance graph and table
The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2016 in terms of total shareholder  
return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index. The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section  
of leading UK companies.

Total shareholder return – rebased to 2008 Year ended 31 December

250

200

150

100

50
FTSE 100 Index
Barclays PLC

2008 2010 2011 20122009 2014 20152013

210
193

178

183

120

174
180

187184

182

154
183

143
140

127

217

2016

P

In addition, the table below provides a summary of the total remuneration of the relevant Group Chief Executive over the same period as the 
previous graph. For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis 
consistent with the ‘single figure' methodology.

Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2015 2016

Group Chief Executive
John 

Varley
John 

Varley
Bob 

Diamond
Bob 

Diamonda
Antony 
Jenkinsb

Antony 
Jenkins

Antony 
Jenkins

Antony 
Jenkinsb

John 
McFarlanec

Jes 
Staleyd

Jes 
Staley

Group Chief Executive single figure of 
total remuneration £000s 2,050 4,567 11,070e 1,892 529 1,602 5,467f 3,399 305 277 4,233
Annual bonus against maximum 
opportunity % 0% 100% 80% 0% 0% 0% 57% 48% N/A N/A 60%
Long-term incentive vesting against 
maximum opportunity % 50% 16% N/Ag 0% N/Ag N/Ag 30% 39% N/Ag N/Ag N/Ag

Notes
a Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012.
b Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015.
c John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015. His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.  

He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
d Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015.
e This figure includes £5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report. Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be  

offset by a double tax treaty.
f Antony Jenkins' 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years.
g Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period.

Percentage change in Group Chief Executive's remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive's salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 compares  
with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.

Fixed Pay Benefits Annual bonus
Group Chief Executivea 0% 118%b N/Ac

Average based on UK employeesd 3.6% No change (0.1)%

Notes
a The 2015 figures for the Group Chief Executive are based on the Group Chief Executive, Jes Staley, and are annualised in order to provide a meaningful comparison of the year  

on year change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive and UK based employees.
b The percentage increase in benefits for the Group Chief Executive arises primarily as a result of relocation provided in 2016.
c The Group Chief Executive did not receive an annual bonus in 2015.
d Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.

We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative group for pay structure comparisons.

Relative importance of spend on pay
A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders is shown below.

Group compensation costs (£m)

0 2,500 5,000 7,500

£7,445

£7,301a
2016

2015

Dividends to shareholders (£m)

0 200 400 600 1,000

£757

£1,081

2016

2015

800

Note
a 2015 Group compensation costs have been adjusted to exclude the impact of £429m gain on valuation of a component of the defined benefit liability.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
128 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Chairman and non-executive Directors
Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors  
of comparable major UK companies.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 fees (audited)
Fees Benefits Total

2016
£000 

2015
£000 

2016
£000 

2015
£000 

2016
£000 

2015
£000 

Chairman
John McFarlanea 800 628 1 11 801 639
Sir David Walkerb – 285 – 6 – 291
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 207 207 – – 207 207
Tim Breedon 220 232 – – 220 232
Mary Francisc 29 – – – 29 –
Crawford Gillies 195 178 – – 195 178
Sir Gerry Grimstoned 250 – – – 250 –
Reuben Jeffery III 120 135 – – 120 135
Wendy Lucas-Bulle 64 358 – – 64 358
Dambisa Moyo 135 152 – – 135 152
Frits van Paasschenf 35 88 – – 35 88
Diane de Saint Victor 118 135 – – 118 135
Diane Schuenemangh 232 74 – – 232  74
Steve Thiekeh 221 184 – – 221 184
Sir Michael Rakei – 250 – – – 250
Sir John Sunderlandj –  60 – – –  60
Total 2,626 2,966 1 17 2,627 2,983

Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons. Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid  
by Barclays.

The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.

Notes
a John McFarlane joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2015 and as Chairman from 24 April 2015. The 2015 total includes non-executive Director 

fees of £78,000 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 24 April 2015.
b Sir David Walker retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015.
c Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016.
d Sir Gerry Grimstone joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2016 and succeeded Sir Michael Rake as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman with 

effect from 1 January 2016.
e Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016. Figures include fees received by Wendy Lucas-Bull for her role as Chairman of Barclays Africa Group Limited.
f Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.
g  Diane Schueneman joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 June 2015.
h Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke both served in 2016 on the US Governance Review Board, which was an advisory board set up as the forerunner of the board of our 

US intermediate holding company which was established during 2016. They each subsequently joined the board of the US intermediate holding company on its formation.  
The 2015 figures for Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke included fees of $37,500 and $75,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board.  
The 2016 figures include fees of $138,000 and $150,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board and the board of the US intermediate holding 
company. In addition, Steve Thieke waived fees of $63,000.

i Sir Michael Rake retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2015.
j Sir John Sunderland retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2017
2017 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.

1 January 2017
£000

1 January 2016
£000

Percentage 
Increase

Chairmana  800 800 0
Deputy Chairmana  250 250 0
Board member  80 80 0
Additional responsibilities
Senior Independent Director 30 30 0
Chairman of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 70 70 0
Chairman of Board Risk Committee 70 60 17
Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50 0
Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30 0
Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25 0
Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15 0

Notes
a The Chairman and Deputy Chairman do not receive any other additional responsibility fees in addition to the Chairman and Deputy Chairman fees respectively. 
b The basic fee payable to non-executive Directors was last increased in May 2011. Some revisions have been made to the additional fees payable to Board Committee Chairman 

to reflect time commitment and responsibilities.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 129

Payments to former Directors
Former Group Chief Executive: Antony Jenkins
Antony Jenkins continued to receive base salary, RBP, benefits and pension allowance until 7 July 2016 (the Termination Date).  
Full details of his eligibility to variable pay were disclosed in the 2015 Directors' Remuneration report (page 101 of the 2015 Annual Report). 

Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas
In 2016, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive  
Income Protection Plan (EIPP). Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors' Remuneration report  
(page 115 of the 2013 Annual Report). Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2016.

Directors' shareholdings and share interests
Executive Directors' shareholdings and share interests (audited)
The chart below shows the value of Barclays' shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 20 February 2017 that count towards 
the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays' shares worth four times' salary. The current executive Directors have five years from their 
respective date of appointment to meet this requirement. At close of business on 20 February 2017, the market value of Barclays' ordinary shares  
was £2.375.

£4,800

£10,079

Requirement

Actual

Jes Staley (£000)

£3,200

£3,482

Requirement

Actual

Tushar Morzaria (£000)

Interests in Barclays PLC shares (audited)
The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject  
to either deferral terms and/or performance measures. The shares shown below, that are subject to performance measures, are based on the 
maximum number of shares that may be released.

Unvested Total as at 
31 December 
2016 (or date 
of retirement 

from the Board, 
if earlier)Owned outright

Subject to 
performance

 measures

Not subject to 
performance 

measures

Total as at 
20 February 

2017
Executive Directors
Jes Staley 4,243,848  –  – 4,243,848 4,243,848
Tushar Morzaria 1,466,204 3,474,246 578,391 5,518,841 5,518,841
Chairman
John McFarlane 46,852 – – 46,852 46,852
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 65,290 – – 65,290 65,290
Tim Breedon 29,755 – – 29,755 29,755
Mary Francisa 7,600 – – 7,600 7,600
Crawford Gillies 70,208 – – 70,208 70,208
Sir Gerry Grimstone 103,288 – – 103,288 103,288
Reuben Jeffery III 200,196 – – 200,196 200,196
Wendy Lucas-Bullb 15,672 – – 15,672 –
Dambisa Moyo 51,192 – – 51,192 51,192
Frits van Paasschenc 23,681 – – 23,681 –
Diane de Saint Victor 36,691 – – 36,691 36,691
Diane Schueneman 16,004 – –  16,004 16,004
Steve Thieke 55,073 – – 55,073 55,073

Notes
a Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016.
b Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016.
c Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 28 April 2016.
 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
130 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Barclays Board Remuneration Committee
The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays' remuneration as described in more detail below.

Terms of Reference
The role of the Committee is to:
■■ set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group
■■ consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of (i) the Chairman, (ii) the executive Directors, (iii) members of the Barclays Group 

Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and (iv) all other Group employees whose 
total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time (currently £2m)

■■ exercise oversight for remuneration issues.

The Committee considers all aspects of the design and operation of remuneration policy to ensure a coherent approach is taken in respect of all 
employees. In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy assesses, among other things, the impact of pay 
arrangements on culture and all elements of risk management. The Committee also approves incentive pools for all major businesses and functions, 
regularly reviews the design and provision of retirement benefits, and considers and approves measures designed to promote the alignment of the 
interests of shareholders and employees. The Committee and its members work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised to 
select and appoint its own advisers as required.

The Terms of Reference can be found at home.barclays/corporategovernance or from the Company Secretary on request.

Chairman and members
The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows:
■■ Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015
■■ Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012
■■ Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016
■■ Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.

Former member
Steve Thieke left the Committee on 1 March 2016 having been a Committee member since 6 February 2014.

All current members are considered independent by the Board.

Remuneration Committee attendance in 2016
Number of meetings 

eligible to attend
Number of 

meetings attended
Crawford Gillies 9 9
Tim Breedon 9 8
Mary Francis 2 2
Dambisa Moyo 9 9
Steve Thieke 3 3

The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review. The December 2016 review concluded that 
Board members have full confidence in the effectiveness and thoroughness of the Committee. Full details of the Board Effectiveness review can be 
found on page 81.

Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Until February 2016, the Committee was advised by Willis Towers Watson. The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Willis Towers 
Watson to the Committee was independent and objective. Willis Towers Watson is a signatory to, and its appointment as adviser to the Committee 
was conditional on adherence to, the voluntary UK Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consultants.

During the rest of 2016, the Committee decided not to engage an independent adviser but Willis Towers Watson continued to provide the 
Committee with market data on compensation when considering incentive levels and remuneration packages. 

Fees for the Committee work were charged on a time/cost basis and Willis Towers Watson was paid a total of £48,000 (excluding VAT) in fees for its 
advice to the Committee in 2016 relating to the executive Directors (either exclusively or along with other employees within the Committee's Terms 
of Reference).

Willis Towers Watson also provides pensions advice, advice on health and benefits provision, assistance and technology support for employee 
surveys and performance management, and remuneration data to the Group. Willis Towers Watson also provides pensions advice and administration 
services to the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.

In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and the 
Group Reward and Performance Director. The Group Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and business financial 
performance and the Group's risk profile respectively.

No Barclays' employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration. No other 
advisers provided significant services to the Committee in the year.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 131

Remuneration Committee activities in 2016
The following provides a summary of the Committee's activities during 2016 and at the January and February 2017 meetings at which 2016 
remuneration decisions were finalised.

Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other matters

January 2016 ■■ 2015 incentive funding proposals ■■ Finance and Risk updates

February 2016  
(Two meetings)

■■ Approved executive Directors' and senior executives' 2016 
fixed pay

■■ Approved 2016 executive Directors' annual bonus 
performance measures

■■ Approved Group fixed pay budgets for 2016
■■ Approved final 2015 incentive funding
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior 

executives' 2015 bonuses and 2016 LTIP awards for 
executive Directors

■■ Approved 2015 Remuneration report
■■ Finance and Risk updates including ex ante 

risk adjustment
■■ Appointment of Committee independent 

adviser
■■ Updates on headcount and employee 

attrition
■■ Consideration of the outcomes of the 2015 

Committee effectiveness review

June 2016 ■■ Barclays' deferral approach
■■ Impact of corporate restructuring on executive Director 

and Group Executive Committee members' remuneration

■■ Review of Directors' remuneration policy
■■ Update on Structural Reform

July 2016 ■■ Review of Barclays' broader remuneration 
philosophy 

■■ Review of Directors' remuneration policy

September 2016  
(joint meeting with Nominations 
Committee)

■■ Approved Tim Throsby's appointment and remuneration 
arrangements

October 2016 ■■ Review of Directors' remuneration policy

November 2016 ■■ 2016 incentive funding projections including risk 
adjustments

■■ 2017 LTIP performance measures

■■ Annual review of Committee Terms of 
Reference 

■■ Finance and Risk updates 
■■ Updates on headcount and employee 

attrition 
■■ 2016 payround shareholder engagement 

planning

December 2016 ■■ Initial considerations on senior executives' 2016 bonuses 
and 2017 fixed pay

■■ 2017 LTIP performance measures 
■■ 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk 

adjustments

■■ Review of draft Directors' remuneration 
policy

■■ Finance and Risk updates 
■■ Updates on headcount and employee 

attrition

January 2017 ■■ 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk 
adjustments

■■ 2016 bonus proposals for senior executives
■■ Barclays' deferral approach

■■ Finance and Risk updates

February 2017 ■■ Approved executive Directors' and senior executives' 2017 
fixed pay

■■ Approved 2017 executive Directors' annual bonus 
performance measures

■■ Approved Group fixed pay budgets for 2017
■■ Approved final 2016 incentive funding including risk 

adjustments
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior 

executives' 2016 bonuses and 2017 LTIP awards for 
executive Directors

■■ Approved 2016 Remuneration report
■■ Finance and Risk updates 
■■ Updates on headcount and employee 

attrition

Regular items: market and stakeholder updates including PRA/FCA, US Federal Reserve and other regulatory matters; updates from Remuneration 
Review Panel meetings; operation of the Committee's Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination; and LTIP performance updates.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
132 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report
Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration arrangements at the AGM held on 28 April 2016 and the last policy vote  
at the AGM held on 24 April 2014:

For 
% of 
votes cast 
Number

Against 
% of 
votes cast 
Number

Withheld 
Number

Advisory vote on the 2015 Remuneration report 93.60%
11,351,168,552

6.40%
776,042,467 83,768,745

Binding vote on the Directors' remuneration policy 93.21%
9,936,116,114

6.79%
723,914,712 154,598,278

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 133

2016 total remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executive officers below Board level
The table below shows remuneration for the eight highest paid senior executive officers below Board level who were Key Management Personnel 
in 2016.

Eight highest paid senior executive officers below Board level
1

2016
£000

2
2016
£000

3
2016
£000

4
2016
£000

5
2016
£000

6
2016
£000

7
2016
£000

8
2016
£000

Fixed Pay (salary and RBP) 1,813 1,500 1,974 1,925 1,250 1,300 1,170 1,049
Current year cash bonus 200 200 200 200 200 190 198 105
Current year share bonus 200 200 200 200 200 190 198 105
Deferred cash bonus 2,233 1,125 813 825 375 285 297 158
Deferred share bonus 2,233 1,125 813 825 375 285 297 158
Total remuneration 6,679 4,150 4,000 3,975 2,400 2,250 2,160 1,575

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group
The table below shows the number of employees in the Barclays Group in 2015 and 2016 in bands by reference to total remuneration.  
Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group
Number of employees

2016 2015 2015
Remuneration band Constant currency Actual

£0 to £25,000 33,989 38,457 39,720
£25,001 to £50,000 22,927 25,220 25,153
£50,001 to £100,000 17,063 18,869 18,885
£100,001 to £250,000 9,098 10,047 9,210
£250,001 to £500,000 2,093 2,367 2,181
£500,001 to £1,000,000                         771 879 740
£1,000,001 to £2,500,000 307 309 264
£2,500,001 to £5,000,000 46 51 50
Above £5,000,000 11 9 5

Barclays is a global business. Of those employees earning above £1m in total remuneration for 2016 in the table above, 63% are based in the US, 
32% in the UK, and 5% in the rest of the world.

The number of employees paid above £1m is slightly down year on year on a constant currency basis (364 in 2016 vs. 369 in 2015).

Outstanding share plan and LTIP awards (audited)

Plan

Number of 
shares under 

award at
 1 January 

2016 
(maximum)

Number of 
shares 

awarded
 in year 

(maximum)

Market 
price on 

award date

Number of 
shares

 released

Market 
price on 

release date

Number of 
shares under 

award at 
31 December

 2016 
(maximum)

Value of 
release 

£000

End of 
performance 

period or first 
scheduled 

release date
Last scheduled

 release date
Jes Staley
Share Value Plan 2015 896,450 – £2.34 896,450 £1.65 –  1,479  –  –

Tushar Morzaria
Barclays LTIP 2014-2016 1,375,811 – £2.31  –  – 1,375,811  – 31/12/2016 08/03/2017
Barclays LTIP 2015-2017  828,402  – £2.54  –  –  828,402  – 31/12/2017 05/03/2018
Barclays LTIP 2016-2018  – 1,270,033 £1.65  –  –  1,270,033  – 31/12/2018 04/03/2019
Share Value Plan 2013 322,440 – £2.51 243,616  £1.65  78,824 402  17/03/2014 05/03/2018
Share Value Plan 2014 206,372 – £2.31 103,186 £1.65 103,186 170  16/03/2015  08/03/2017
Share Value Plan 2015 213,017 – £2.54  71,005 £1.65 142,012 117  14/03/2016  05/03/2018
Share Value Plan 2016  – 254,369 £1.65 – – 254,369  –  06/03/2017  04/03/2019

The interests shown in the table above are the maximum number of Barclays' shares that may be received under each plan.  
Executive Directors do not pay for any share plan or LTIP awards. No shares lapsed during 2016.

Jes Staley received 19,846 dividend equivalent shares from SVP awards released in 2016 and Tushar Morzaria received 27,503 dividend equivalent 
shares from SVP awards released in 2016. 

This section contains voluntary disclosures about levels of remuneration for our eight most highly paid senior executive officers,  
levels of remuneration of employees in the Barclays Group and outstanding share plan and LTIP awards for our executive Directors.

Governance: Remuneration report
Additional remuneration disclosures

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
134 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Material existing and emerging risks Annual Report Pillar 3 Report
Insight into the level of risk 
across our business and 
portfolios, the material existing 
and emerging risks and 
uncertainties we face and the 
key areas of management focus.

■■ Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting more than one 
Principal Risk

137 n/a

■■ Credit risk 139 n/a
■■ Market risk 141 n/a
■■ Treasury and capital risk 141 n/a
■■ Operational risk 142 n/a
■■ Model risk 143 n/a
■■ Conduct risk 143 n/a
■■ Reputation risk 144 n/a
■■ Legal risk 144 n/a

Risk management
Overview of Barclays' approach 
to risk management. A detailed 
overview together with more 
specific information on policies 
that the Group determines to 
be of particular significance in 
the current operating 
environment can be found in 
Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 
Report or at Barclays.com.

■■ Risk management strategy 146 110
■■ Credit risk management 149 119
■■ Management of credit risk mitigation techniques and counterparty credit risk 150 135
■■ Market risk management 151 138
■■ Management of securitisation exposures n/a 146
■■ Treasury and capital risk management 152 150
■■ Operational risk management 157 158
■■ Model risk management 159 162
■■ Conduct risk management 160 164
■■ Reputation risk management 161 166
■■ Legal risk management 162 168

Risk performance
Credit risk: 
The risk of suffering financial 
loss should the Group's 
customers, clients or market 
counterparties fail to fulfil their 
contractual obligations.

■■ Credit risk overview 166 32
■■ Analysis of the balance sheet 166 n/a
■■ Analysis of maximum exposure and collateral and other credit enhancement held 167 47
■■ The Group's approach to manage and represent credit quality 169 48, 51
■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 171 41, 43
■■ Exposure to Eurozone countries 172 n/a
■■ Loans and advances to customers and banks 175 n/a
■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 176 n/a
■■ Analysis of problem loans 180 61
■■ Forbearance 182 n/a
■■ Impairment 186 61

Market risk: 
The risk of a reduction to 
earnings or capital due to 
volatility of the trading book 
positions or an inability to 
hedge the banking book 
balance sheet.

■■ Market risk overview and measures in the Group 191 81
■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 192 82
■■ Traded market risk 193 83
■■ Business scenario stresses 194 83
■■ Review of regulatory measures 194 84
■■ Capital requirements for market risk n/a 85
■■ Non-traded market risk 195 86
■■ Economic capital 196 87
■■ Foreign exchange risk 197 88
■■ Pension risk review 198 90

Funding risk – Capital: 
The risk that the Group is unable to 
maintain appropriate capital ratios.

■■ Capital risk overview and regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 202 n/a
■■ Capital resources 203 n/a
■■ Risk weighted assets 205 n/a
■■ Leverage ratio and exposures 206 28

Funding risk – Liquidity:
The risk that the firm, although 
solvent, either does not have 
sufficient financial resources 
available to enable it to meet 
its obligations as they fall due, 
or can secure such resources 
only at excessive cost. 

■■ Liquidity risk overview and stress testing 209 152
■■ Liquidity pool 211 152
■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 212 n/a
■■ Deposit funding 212 n/a
■■ Wholesale funding Group 213 n/a
■■ Term financing 215 n/a
■■ Encumbrance 215 175
■■ Credit ratings 219 n/a
■■ Liquidity management at BAGL Group 220 n/a
■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 220 n/a

The management of risk is a critical 
underpinning to the execution of Barclays' 
strategy. The material risks and uncertainties 
the Group faces across its business and 
portfolios are key areas of management focus. 

 For a more detailed breakdown of our Risk Management 
approach and our Risk Performance please see pages 163 
to 236. Barclays' risk disclosures are provided in the Annual 
Report and in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 135

Risk performance continued Annual Report Pillar 3 Report
Operational risk: 
The risk of direct or indirect 
impacts resulting from human 
factors, inadequate or failed 
internal processes and systems 
or external events.

■■ Operational risk overview 226 105
■■ Summary of performance in the period 226 106
■■ Operation risk profile 226 107

Conduct risk: 
The risk that detriment is 
caused to our customers, 
clients, counterparties or 
Barclays and its employees 
because of inappropriate 
judgement in the execution of 
our business activities.

■■ Conduct reputation measure 227 n/a
■■ Conduct risk overview 228 n/a
■■ Summary of performance 228 n/a

Supervision and regulation: 
The Group's operations, 
including its overseas offices, 
subsidiaries and associates, are 
subject to a significant body of 
rules and regulations that are a 
condition for authorisation to 
conduct banking and financial 
services business.

■■ Supervision of the Group 229 n/a
■■ Global regulatory developments 230 n/a
■■ Regulation in the EU and UK 230 n/a
■■ Regulation in the US 233 n/a
■■ Regulatory developments in the US 235 n/a
■■ Structural reform developments 236 n/a

Pillar 3 Report
Contains extensive information 
on risk as well as capital 
management.

■■ High level summary of risk and capital profile n/a 3
■■ Notes on basis of preparation n/a 5
■■ Scope of application of Basel rules n/a 6

Risk and capital position 
review: 
Provides a detailed breakdown 
of Barclays' regulatory capital 
adequacy and how this relates 
to Barclays' risk management.

■■ Group capital resources, requirements and CRD IV comparatives n/a 15
■■ Analysis of credit risk n/a 32
■■ Analysis of counterparty credit risk n/a 67
■■ Analysis of credit value adjustment n/a 79
■■ Analysis of market risk n/a 80
■■ Analysis of securitisation exposures n/a 92
■■ Analysis of operational risk n/a 105

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
136 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Analysis of material existing and emerging 
risks
This section describes the material risks to 
which senior management pay particular 
attention, which they believe could cause 
the future results of the Group's operations, 
financial condition and prospects to differ 
materially from current expectations.

For more information about the major risk policies which 
underlie risk exposures, see the consolidated policy-based 
qualitative information in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report. 

A summary of this information may also be found in this report in 
the Risk management section between pages 146 to 162.

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 137

Material existing and emerging risks 
Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance

This section describes the material risks to which senior 
management pay particular attention, which they believe could 
cause the future results of the Group's operations, financial condition 
and prospects to differ materially from current expectations. These 
expectations include the ability to pay dividends, maintain appropriate 
levels of capital and meet capital and leverage ratio targets, and 
achieve stated commitments as outlined in the Strategic Report. 
In addition, risks relating to the Group that are not currently 
known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may individually 
or cumulatively have the potential to materially affect the future 
results of the Group's operations, financial condition and prospects.  

Material risks and their impact are described below in two sections: 
i) risks which senior management believe are likely to affect more than 
one Principal Risk; and ii) risks which senior management believe are 
likely to impact a single Principal Risk. An emerging risk is a risk that has 
the potential to have a significant detrimental effect on the Group's 
performance, but currently the outcome and the time horizon for the 
crystallisation of its possible impact is more uncertain and more difficult 
to predict than for other risk factors that are not identified as emerging 
risks. A revised ERMF was approved by the Board in December 2016. 
This includes a revised risk taxonomy comprising eight Principal Risks 
(Model Risk, Reputation Risk and Legal Risk were not previously 
classified as Principal Risks). Additional detail on ERMF and Principal 
Risks may be found on page 146.

Additional detail on the management of risks may be found in Barclays' 
Approach to Managing Risk in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report. 

Material existing and emerging risks potentially 
impacting more than one Principal Risk
i) Structural reform
The UK Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (the UK Banking 
Reform Act) and associated secondary legislation and regulatory rules, 
require all UK deposit-taking banks with over £25bn of deposits (from 
individuals and small businesses) to separate certain day-to-day banking 
activities (e.g. deposit-taking) offered to retail and smaller business 
customers from other wholesale and investment banking services.
Through the creation of Barclays' ring-fenced bank, the Group will 
ensure that core deposits placed within the European Economic Area 
(EEA) are ring-fenced to meet the requirements of the legislation by 
2019. The implementation of these changes involves a number of risks 
which include:
■■ The Group must restructure its intra-group and external capital, 

funding and liquidity arrangements to meet regulatory requirements 
and support business needs. The changes will impact the sources of 
funding available to the different entities, including preventing the non 
ring-fenced bank's access to certain categories of deposit funding.  
These changes may result in higher funding costs.

■■ The changes to the Group structure may negatively impact the 
assessment made by credit rating agencies and creditors. The risk 
profile and key risk drivers of the ring-fenced bank and the non 
ring-fenced bank will be specific to the activities and risk profile of 
each entity. As a result different Group entities are likely to be assessed 
differently and this may result in differences in credit ratings. Changes 
to the credit assessment at the Group or individual entity level, including 
the potential for ratings downgrades and ratings differences across 
entities, could impact access and cost of certain sources of funding.

■■ Implementation of ring-fencing introduces a number of execution 
risks. Technology change could result in outages or operational errors.  
Legal challenge to the ring-fence transfer scheme may delay the 
transfer of assets and liabilities to the ring-fenced bank. In particular, 
the setup of the Group Service Company as a separate legal entity 
servicing both trading entities (i.e. ring-fenced bank and non 
ring-fenced bank) will require a number of intra-group service level 
agreements to be established and agreed between the Group Service 
Company and the trading entities and will require the Group to set up 
a new approach to manage, fund and deliver the activities that will be 
provided by this entity. Delayed delivery could increase reputational 
risk or result in regulatory non-compliance. Uncertain customer 
preference (for placement in the ring-fenced or non ring-fenced bank) 
may result in changes to design and implementation plans.

■■ At the European level, structural reform regulation is still being 
developed as highlighted by the European Union proposal issued in 
November 2016 for Intermediate Holding Companies. The impact of 
final rules on Barclays' businesses is still to be assessed once European 
regulation is finalised. Final rules will need to be considered alongside EU 
Referendum implications. The implementation date for these proposals 
will depend on the date on which any final legislation is agreed.

■■ There is a risk that Barclays does not meet regulatory requirements 
across the new structure. Failure to meet these requirements 
may have an adverse impact on the Group's profitability, operating 
flexibility, flexibility of deployment of capital and funding, return 
on equity, ability to pay dividends, credit ratings, and/or financial 
condition.

ii) Business conditions, general economy and geopolitical issues
The Group's performance could be adversely affected in relation to more 
than one Principal Risk by a weak or deteriorating global economy or 
political instability. These factors may also occur in one or more of the 
Group's main countries of operation.

The Group offers a broad range of services including to retail, 
institutional and government customers, in a large number of countries. 
The breadth of these operations means that deterioration in the 
economic environment, or an increase in political instability in countries 
where the Group is active, or in any other systemically important 
economy, could adversely affect the Group's performance and prospects.

For the Group, a deterioration of conditions in its key markets could 
affect performance in a number of ways including, for example: 
(i) deteriorating business, consumer or investor confidence leading 
to reduced levels of client activity, or indirectly, a material adverse 
impact on GDP growth in significant markets and therefore on Group 
performance; (ii) higher levels of default rates and impairment; (iii) mark 
to market losses in trading portfolios resulting from changes in factors 
such as credit ratings, share prices and solvency of counterparties; and 
(iv) lower levels of fixed asset investment and productivity growth overall.

Global growth is expected to remain modest in 2017, with low single 
digit growth in advanced economies alongside a slowdown in emerging 
markets. This moderate economic performance, lower commodity prices 
and increased geopolitical tensions mean that the distribution of risks 
to global economic activity continues to be biased to the downside. 
Commodity prices, particularly oil prices, remain depressed, but could 
fall further if growth in demand remains weak or supply takes longer 
than expected to adjust. At the same time, countries with high reliance 
on commodity-related earnings have already experienced a tightening 
of financial conditions. A sustained period of low prices risks triggering 
further financial distress, default and contagion, for our customers, their 
suppliers and local communities, and resulting losses for Barclays.

Moreover, sentiment towards emerging markets as a whole continues 
to be driven in large part by developments in China, where there is 
significant concern around the ability of authorities to manage growth 
whilst transitioning towards services. A stronger than expected 
slowdown could result if authorities fail to appropriately manage the end 
of the investment and credit-led boom, while the consequences from a 
faster slowdown would flow through both financial and trade channels 
into other economies, and affect commodity markets.

Whilst tightening of monetary policy by the US Federal Reserve was not 
as pronounced as expected during 2016, a moderate increase in activity 
is expected during 2017, the increasing divergence of policies between 
major advanced economies risks triggering further financial market 
volatility. Changes to interest rate expectations could ignite further 
volatility and US Dollar appreciation, particularly if the US Federal 
Reserve were to increase interest rates faster than markets currently 
expect. Emerging markets have already seen growth slow following 
increased capital outflows, but growth may slow further if tighter US 
interest rate policy drives further reallocation of capital.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
138 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks 
Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance

In several countries, reversals of capital inflows, as well as fiscal austerity, 
have already caused deterioration in political stability. This could be 
exacerbated by a renewed rise in asset price volatility or sustained 
pressure on government finances. In addition, geopolitical tensions in 
some areas of the world, including the Middle East and Eastern Europe 
are already acute, and are at risk of further deterioration.

In the US, the policy platform of the new administration is expected 
to be clarified during the early part of 2017. There is the possibility of 
significant changes in policy in sectors including trade, healthcare and 
commodities which may have an impact on associated Barclays' 
portfolios. Proposed policy changes (including tax-cuts and significant 
infrastructure spending) are likely to result in higher global growth, 
further reinforcing the move towards global reflation. Political change 
may increase uncertainty as to regulatory trends, both in the US and 
the EU.

In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the EU has given rise to political 
uncertainty with attendant consequences for investment and 
confidence. See vi) EU Referendum on page 139.

iii) Change and execution risk 
The Group continues to drive changes to its functional capabilities and 
operating environment in order to allow the business to exploit emerging 
and digital technologies, and improve customer experience whilst also 
embedding enhanced regulatory requirements, strategic realignment, 
and business model changes. The complexity, increasing pace, and 
volume of changes underway simultaneously mean there is heightened 
execution risk and potential for change not being delivered to plan. 

Failure to adequately manage this risk could result in extended outages 
and disruption, financial loss, customer detriment, legal liability, potential 
regulatory censure and reputational damage.

iv) Risks arising from regulation of the financial services industry 
The financial services industry continues to be the focus of significant 
regulatory change and scrutiny which may adversely affect the Group's 
business, financial performance, capital and risk management strategies. 
For further information on regulations affecting the Group, including 
significant regulatory developments, please see the section on 
Supervision and Regulation on page 229.

a) Regulatory change 
The Group, in common with much of the financial services industry, 
remains subject to significant levels of regulatory change and increasing 
scrutiny in many of the countries in which it operates (including, in 
particular, the UK and the US). This has led to a more intensive approach 
to supervision and oversight, increased expectations and enhanced 
requirements. As a result, regulatory risk will remain a focus for senior 
management and consume significant levels of business resources. 
Furthermore, this more intensive approach and the enhanced 
requirements, uncertainty and extent of international regulatory 
coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are developed and 
implemented may adversely affect the Group's business, capital and risk 
management strategies and/or may result in the Group deciding to 
modify its legal entity structure, capital and funding structures and 
business mix, or to exit certain business activities altogether or not to 
expand in areas despite otherwise attractive potential. 

b) Changes in prudential requirements, including changes to CRD IV 
The Group's results and ability to conduct its business may be negatively 
affected by changes or additions to supervisory and prudential 
expectations, including in relation to any minimum requirements for own 
funds and eligible liabilities, leverage or liquidity requirements, applicable 
buffers and/or add-ons to such minimum requirements and RWA 
calculation methodologies all as may be set by international, EU or 
national authorities from time to time (including, for example, through 
changes being proposed to the CRD IV framework).

Changes to or additional supervisory and prudential expectations, 
either individually or in aggregate, may lead to unexpected enhanced 
requirements in relation to the Group's capital, leverage, liquidity and 
funding ratios or alter the way such ratios are calculated. This may result 
in, amongst other things, a need for further management actions to 
meet the changed requirements, such as: increasing capital or liquidity 
resources, reducing leverage and risk weighted assets; modifying legal 

entity structure (including with regard to issuance and deployment of 
capital and funding for the Group); changing the Group's business mix 
or exiting other businesses; and/or undertaking other actions to 
strengthen the Group's position. See Treasury and Capital Risk on page 
152 and Supervision and Regulation on page 229 for more information. 

c) Market infrastructure reforms
Financial market infrastructure is subject to extensive and increasing 
regulation in many of the Group's markets. The derivatives market has 
been the subject of particular focus across the G20 countries, requiring 
the clearing of standardised derivatives and the mandatory margining 
of non-cleared derivatives. More broadly, the recast Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive in Europe (MiFID II) will fundamentally change 
the framework for market infrastructure, the Benchmarks Regulation will 
regulate the use of benchmarks in the EU, and regulation governing 
Central Securities Depositories will increase the requirements upon 
participants in the financial markets. 

It is possible that these additional regulations, and the related expenses 
and requirements, will increase the cost of and therefore impact 
willingness of participation in the financial markets.

d) Recovery and resolution planning 
In recent years, there has been a strong regulatory focus on ‘resolvability' 
from regulators globally, and Barclays continues to work with the 
relevant authorities to identify and address potential impediments to 
the Group's resolvability. As part of this work, the Group is required 
to submit formal Recovery and Resolution Plan (RRP) submissions to 
UK, US and South African regulators describing Barclays' strategy for 
recovery and rapid and orderly resolution. These submissions are 
evaluated by regulators on the basis of both qualitative and quantitative 
metrics, the specifics of which may become more rigorous over time. 

Should the relevant authorities in any jurisdiction ultimately determine 
that a resolution plan were not credible or would not facilitate an orderly 
resolution, Barclays or its subsidiaries could be made subject to more 
stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on 
growth, activities or operations. The potential structural changes that 
may be required to address such a determination may negatively impact 
the financial or competitive position or results of operations of the 
Group, as well as increase the risk that the Group would be unable 
to maintain appropriate prudential ratios or be restricted from making 
intra-group or external capital contributions. 

e) Stress testing 
The Group and certain of its members are subject to supervisory stress 
testing exercises in a number of jurisdictions. These exercises currently 
include the programmes of the BoE, the EBA, the FDIC, the FRB and the 
SARB. These exercises are designed to assess the resilience of banks to 
adverse economic or financial developments and ensure that they have 
robust, forward-looking capital and liquidity management processes 
that account for the risks associated with their business profile. 
Assessment by regulators is on both a quantitative and qualitative basis, 
the latter focusing on the Group's or certain of its members' business 
model, data provision, stress testing capability and internal management 
processes and controls. The stress testing requirements to which the 
Group and its members are subject are becoming increasingly stringent, 
including in the US where the newly sub-consolidated operations and 
the IHC will be stress-tested and examined under the FRB's annual CCAR 
programme for the first time in 2017. Failure to meet requirements of 
regulatory stress tests, or the failure by regulators to approve the stress 
test results and capital plans of the Group, could result in the Group 
being required to enhance its capital position, limit capital distributions 
or position capital in specific subsidiaries. For more information on stress 
testing, please see Supervision and Regulation on page 229.

v) Regulatory action in the event of a bank failure 
As described under ‘Supervision of the Group, Regulation in the EU and 
UK, Recovery and Resolution developments' on page 231, UK resolution 
authorities have the right under certain circumstances to intervene in 
the Group pursuant to the stabilisation and resolution powers granted 
to them under the Banking Act and other applicable legislation.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 139

If any of the powers conferred on the BoE were to be exercised, or there 
were an increased risk of exercise, in respect of the Group or any entity 
within the Group, this might result in a material adverse effect on the 
rights or interests of shareholders and creditors including holders of debt 
securities and could have a material adverse effect on the market price 
of shares and other securities issued by the Group. Such effects could 
include losses of shareholdings or associated rights including, the 
dilution of percentage ownership of the Group's share capital, and may 
result in creditors, including debt holders, losing all or a part of the value 
of their investment in the Group's issued securities.

vi) EU referendum 
The UK held a referendum on 23 June 2016 on whether it should remain 
a member of the EU. This resulted in a vote in favour of leaving the EU. 
The result of the referendum means that the long-term nature of the 
UK's relationship with the EU is unclear and there is uncertainty as to the 
nature and timing of any agreement with the EU on the terms of exit. 
In the interim, there is a risk of uncertainty for both the UK and the EU, 
which could adversely affect the economy of the UK and the other 
economies in which we operate. The potential risks associated with an 
exit from the EU have been carefully considered by the Board and include:

Market risk
■■ Potential for continued market volatility (notably FX and interest rates) 

given political uncertainty which could affect the value of Trading 
Book positions.

Credit risk
■■ Increased risk of a UK recession with lower growth, higher 

unemployment and falling UK house prices. This would likely 
negatively impact a number of Barclays' portfolios, notably: higher 
Loan to Value home loans, UK unsecured lending including cards and 
Commercial Real Estate exposures.

Operational risk
■■ Changes to current EU ‘Passporting rights': the UK's withdrawal 

from the EU may result in the loss of cross-border market access 
rights which would require Barclays to make alternative licensing 
arrangements in EU jurisdictions in which Barclays continues 
to operate.

■■ Uncertainty over UK's future approach to EU freedom of movement 
will impact Barclays' access to the EU talent pool, decisions on hiring 
from the EU of critical roles and rights to work of current Barclays 
non-UK EU citizens located in the UK and UK citizens located in 
the EU. 

 Legal risk 
■■ The legal framework within which Barclays operates could change 

and become more uncertain as the UK takes steps to replace or repeal 
certain laws currently in force, which are based on EU legislation 
and regulation. Certainty of existing contracts, enforceability of legal 
obligations and uncertainty around the outcome of disputes may 
be affected until the impacts of the loss of the current jurisdictional 
arrangements between UK and EU courts and the universal 
enforceability of judgements across the EU, are fully known 
(including the status of existing EU case law).

Treasury and capital risk 
■■ Potential for credit spread widening and reduced investor appetite 

for Barclays debt issuance, which could negatively impact the cost of 
and/or access to funding. Potential for continued market volatility 
could affect interest rate risk in the banking book, as well as securities 
held by Barclays for liquidity purposes. 

■■ Changes in the long-term outlook for UK interest rates might also 
adversely affect UK Pension IAS19 liabilities.

vii) Impairment
The introduction of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, due to be implemented on 1 January 2018, is expected to 
result in higher impairment loss allowances that are recognised earlier, 
on a more forward looking basis and on a broader scope of financial 
instruments than is the case under IAS 39. Measurement will involve 
increased complexity, judgement and is expected to have a material 
financial impact and impairment charges will tend to be more volatile. 
Unsecured products with longer expected lives, such as revolving credit 
cards, are expected to be most impacted. The capital treatment on the 
increased reserves is the subject of ongoing discussion with regulators 
and across the industry, but there is potential for significant adverse 
impact on regulatory capital ratios. In addition, the move from incurred 
to expected credit losses has the potential to impact the Group's 
performance under stressed economic conditions or regulatory stress 
tests. For more information please refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting 
Policies on pages 284 to 289.

Barclays has a jointly accountable risk and finance implementation and 
governance programme with representation from all impacted 
departments. During 2016, work continued on the design and build of 
impairment models, systems, processes, governance, controls and data 
collection and continues to be refined during 2017. During 2017, there is 
a planned parallel run which includes continued model, process and 
output validation, testing, calibration and analysis.

There will be three different layers of impairment committees. In addition 
to the existing Group and Business level committees, Legal Entity 
committees for Barclays UK and Barclays International will also be in 
place. Committees will be chaired by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), with 
joint accountability by both CROs and Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) for 
signing off the results. The new IFRS 9 impairment committee structure, 
with underlying key controls, is expected to be in operation from Q2 
2017. There will also be a Scenarios Management Committee to review 
and approve the scenario process. The scope of review will include the 
scenarios and scenario narratives, the core set of macroeconomic 
variables and any management overlays. The Scenario Management 
Committee will attest that the scenarios adequately account for the non-
linearity and asymmetry of the loss distribution. Reported results and 
key messages will be communicated to the Board Audit Committee and 
Risk Executive Committee, who will have oversight roles and provide 
challenge of key assumptions, including the basis of the scenarios adopted.

Material existing and emerging risks 
by Principal Risk 
Credit risk
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers 
or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour their 
obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely payment 
of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

The Group may suffer financial loss if any of its customers, clients or 
market counterparties fails to fulfil their contractual obligations to the 
Group. The Group may also suffer loss when the value of its investment 
in the financial instruments of an entity falls as a result of that entity's 
credit rating being downgraded. In addition, the Group may incur 
significant unrealised gains or losses due to changes in the Group's 
credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes affect the fair 
value of the Group's derivative instruments, debt securities that the 
Group holds or issues, and loans held at fair value.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
140 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks 
Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance

i) Deterioration in political and economic environment 
The Group's performance is at risk from deterioration in the political and 
economic environment (see also ‘Business conditions, general economy 
and geopolitical issues' on page 137) which may result from a number 
of uncertainties, including the following:

a) Specific regions 
Adverse impacts on customers' ability to service debt and may result 
in result in higher impairment charges for the Group.

UK
Following the EU referendum on 23 June 2016 (see EU Referendum on 
page 139), the UK may experience a period of political and economic 
uncertainty throughout the negotiation period during which exit options 
are hard to fully and accurately predict. The initial impact has been the 
depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher costs for companies exposed 
to imports and a more favourable environment for exporters. Rising 
domestic costs resulting from higher import prices may impact household 
incomes and the affordability of consumer loans and home loans. In turn 
this may affect businesses dependent on consumers for revenue. There 
has also been a reduction in activity in both commercial and residential 
real estate markets which has the potential to impact value.

US
A significant proportion of the Group's portfolio is located in the US, 
including a major credit card portfolio and a range of corporate and 
investment banking exposures. Stress in the US economy, weakening 
GDP, rising unemployment and/or an increase in interest rates could 
lead to increased levels of impairment.

Emerging Markets
Slower growth in China continues to affect a number of emerging 
economies, particularly those with high fiscal deficits and those reliant 
on short-term external financing and/or material reliance on commodity 
exports. Their vulnerability has been further impacted by the fall, and 
sustained volatility in oil prices, the strong US Dollar and the winding 
down of quantitative easing policies by some central banks. The impact 
on the Group may vary depending on the vulnerabilities present in each 
country, but the impact may result in increased impairment charges 
through sovereign defaults, or the inability or unwillingness of clients 
and counterparties in that country to meet their debt obligations.

South Africa
The negative economic outlook in South Africa continues, with a 
challenging domestic and external economic environment and ongoing 
political uncertainty. Real GDP growth remains low resulting in these 
domestic and global factors impacting credit quality across our 
portfolios. In the retail sector, concerns remain over the level of 
consumer indebtedness and affordability, particularly as interest 
rates rise. 

b) Interest rate rises, including as a result of slowing of 
monetary stimulus, could impact consumer debt affordability 
and corporate profitability
To the extent that central banks increase interest rates in certain 
developed markets, particularly in our main markets, the UK and the US, 
they are expected to be small and gradual in scale during 2017, albeit 
following differing timetables. Recent increases in interest rates occurred 
in the US with a 0.25% rise in December 2015 and the same rise in 
December 2016. Whilst further increases may support Group income, 
future interest rate increases, if larger or more frequent than 
expectations, could cause stress in the loan portfolio and underwriting 
activity of the Group. This would be particularly applicable to non-
investment grade lending, leading to the possibility of the Group 
incurring higher impairment. Higher credit losses driving an increased 
impairment allowance would most notably impact retail unsecured and 
secured portfolios as a result of a reduction in recoverability and value 
of the Group's assets, coupled with a decline in collateral values.

Interest rate increases in developed markets may also negatively impact 
emerging economies, as capital flows to mature markets to take 
advantage of the higher returns and strengthening economic fundamentals.

ii) Specific sectors 
The Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality 
and recovery rate of loans and advances due from borrowers and 
counterparties in a specific portfolio. Any deterioration in credit quality 
could lead to lower recoverability and higher impairment in a specific 
sector. The following are areas of uncertainties to the Group's portfolio 
which could have a material impact on performance.

a) UK property
With UK property representing a significant portion of the overall UK 
Corporate and Retail credit exposure, the Group is at risk from a fall in 
property prices in both the residential and commercial sectors in the UK. 
Strong house price growth in London and the South East of the UK, 
fuelled by foreign investment, strong buy-to-let (BTL) demand and 
subdued housing supply, has resulted in affordability metrics becoming 
stretched. Average house prices as at the end of 2016 were more than 
7.9 times average earnings.

However, the recent EU referendum has had a negative impact on home 
loan applications due to the increased uncertainty in the UK housing 
market, with ongoing concerns regarding the potential for falling house 
prices, particularly in London and the South East. Further, a weakening 
economy would impact the home loan portfolio as costs rise off the back 
of higher interest rates and customers are impacted by inflationary 
affordability pressures. Potential losses would likely be most pronounced 
in the higher Loan to Value (LTV) segments as falling house prices lead 
to higher impairment and negative capital impact as loss given default 
(LGD) rates increase. 

b) Natural resources
Despite limited recovery in oil and commodities prices, the risk of losses 
and increased impairment is more pronounced where leverage is higher, 
or in sectors currently subject to strain, notably oil and gas, mining and 
metals and commodities. Sustained oil price depression from its recent 
high continues and is driven by ongoing global excess supply. The 
positioning of these portfolios focuses on investment grade customers 
or collateralised positions. Continued stress in this market does have the 
potential to further increase credit losses and impairment where a 
decline in the value of oil impacts both customer revenue and the value 
of our underlying collateral.

c) Large single name losses
The Group has large individual exposures to single name counterparties. 
The default of such counterparties could have a significant impact on 
the carrying value of these assets. In addition, where such counterparty 
risk has been mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk may remain high 
if the collateral held cannot be realised, or has to be liquidated at prices 
which are insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative 
exposure. Any such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the 
Group's results due to, for example, increased credit losses and higher 
impairment charges.

d) Leverage finance underwriting
The Group takes on significant sub-investment grade underwriting 
exposure, including single name risk, particularly in the US and Europe. 
The Group is exposed to credit events and market volatility during the 
underwriting period. Any adverse events during this period may 
potentially result in loss for the Group or an increased capital 
requirement should there be a need to hold the exposure for an 
extended period.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 141

Market risk
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value 
of the firm's assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables 
including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity 
prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations. 

Increased uncertainty across global markets from such factors as an 
unexpected slowdown in global economic growth, sudden changes in 
monetary policy, unexpected foreign exchange volatility, especially if 
accompanied by a significant deterioration in the depth of marketplace 
liquidity (emerging risk). 

The trading business model is focused on client facilitation in wholesale 
financial markets, ranging from underwriting of debt and equity on 
behalf of issuers, to acting as a market maker in exchange-traded and 
over the counter products, to providing risk management solutions. 

The Group's trading business is generally adversely exposed to a 
prolonged period of elevated asset price volatility, particularly if it 
negatively affects the depth of marketplace liquidity. Such a scenario 
could impact the Group's ability to execute client trades and may also 
result in lower client flow-driven income and/or market-based losses on 
its existing portfolio of market risks. These can include having to absorb 
higher hedging costs from rebalancing risks that need to be managed 
dynamically as market levels and their associated volatilities change. 

Treasury and capital risk 
The risk that the Group may not achieve its business plans because 
of the availability of planned liquidity, a shortfall in capital or a 
mismatch in the interest rate exposures of its assets and liabilities.

The Group may not be able to achieve its business plans due to: i) being 
unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios; ii) being unable to meet its 
obligations as they fall due; iii) rating agency downgrades; iv) adverse 
changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios; v) negative interest 
rates; and vi) adverse movements in the pension fund.

i) Inability to maintain appropriate prudential ratios
Should the Group be unable to maintain or achieve appropriate capital 
ratios this could lead to: an inability to support business activity; a failure 
to meet regulatory capital requirements including any additional capital 
add-ons or the requirements set for regulatory stress tests; increased 
cost of funding due to deterioration in investor appetite or credit ratings; 
restrictions on distributions including the ability to meet dividend 
targets; and/or the need to take additional measures to strengthen the 
Group's capital or leverage position. While the requirements in CRD IV 
are now in force in the UK, further changes to regulatory capital 
requirements could occur, whether as a result of: (i) further changes 
to EU legislation (for example, expected implementation of Bank of 
International Settlements (BIS) regulatory update recommendations 
through CRD V, etc); (ii) relevant binding regulatory technical standards 
updates by the European Banking Authority (EBA); (iii) changes to UK 
legislation; (iv) changes to PRA rules; (v) additional capital requirements 
through Financial Policy Committee (FPC) recommendations; or (vi) 
changes to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Such 
changes, either individually and/or in aggregate, may lead to further 
unexpected additional requirements in relation to the Group's regulatory 
capital. For example, during 2016, the European Commission proposed 
substantial changes to the CRD IV framework (including CRR) in line 
with internationally-agreed standards. These include changes to the 
regulatory definition of trading activity, standardised and advanced RWA 
calculation methodologies for market risk and new standardised RWA 
rules for counterparty credit risk. The proposal also includes phase-in 
arrangements for the regulatory capital impact of IFRS9 and the ongoing 
interaction of IFRS9 with the regulatory framework. The Basel 
Committee has continued its post-crisis work on RWA and leverage 
reform. Further standards are expected during the course of 2017 on 
RWAs for credit risk and operational risk, limitations on the use of 
internal models for RWA purposes and possible floors based on 
standardised RWAs. The implementation timeframe for these changes 
is not yet certain.

Additional prudential requirements may also arise from other regulatory 
reforms, including UK, EU and US proposals on bank structural reform 
and current proposals for ‘Minimum Requirement for own funds and 
Eligible Liabilities (MREL) under the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution 
Directive (BRRD). Included within these reforms are the Bank of 
England's latest responses to consultation and statement of policy on 
MREL requirements for UK banks which were published in November 
2016 and which remain subject to further changes. 

Many of the expected regulatory proposals are still subject to finalisation, 
with calibration and timing of implementation still to be determined, and 
there is potential for the impacts to be different from those originally 
expected when in final form. Overall, it is likely that these changes in law 
and regulation will have an impact on the Group as they are likely, when 
implemented, to require changes to the legal entity structure of the 
Group and how businesses are capitalised and funded. Any such 
increased prudential requirements may also constrain the Group's 
planned activities, require balance sheet reductions and could increase 
the Group's costs, impact the Group's earnings and restrict the Group's 
ability to pay dividends. Moreover, if combined with a period of market 
dislocation or when there is significant competition for the type of 
funding that the Group needs, it may be more difficult and/or costly 
to increase the Group's capital resources.

ii) Inability to manage liquidity and funding risk effectively
Failure to manage its liquidity and funding risk effectively may result in 
the Group either not having sufficient financial resources to meet its 
payment obligations as they fall due or, although solvent, only being able 
to meet these obligations at excessive cost. This could cause the Group 
to fail to meet regulatory liquidity standards, be unable to support 
day-to-day banking activities, or no longer be a going concern. 

iii) Credit rating changes and the impact on funding costs 
A credit rating assesses the creditworthiness of the Group, its 
subsidiaries and branches, and is based on reviews of a broad range of 
business and financial attributes including risk management processes 
and procedures, capital strength, asset quality, earnings, funding, 
liquidity, accounting and governance. Any adverse event to one or more 
of these attributes may lead to a downgrade, which in turn could result 
in contractual outflows to meet contractual requirements on existing 
contracts. Furthermore, outflows related to a multiple-notch credit rating 
downgrade are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the 
liquidity pool is held against this risk. There is a risk that any potential 
downgrades could impact the Group's performance should borrowing 
cost and liquidity change significantly versus expectations or the credit 
spreads of the Group be negatively affected.

For further information, please refer to Credit Ratings in the Liquidity 
Risk Performance section on page 219.

iv) Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios 
The Group has capital resources, risk weighted assets and leverage 
exposures denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign 
currency exchange rates may adversely impact the Sterling equivalent 
value of these items. As a result, the Group's regulatory capital ratios are 
sensitive to foreign currency movements, and any failure to appropriately 
manage the Group's balance sheet to take account of foreign currency 
movements could result in an adverse impact on regulatory capital and 
leverage ratios. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
142 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks 
Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance

v) Negative interest rates
A fall in interest rates leading to an environment with negative nominal 
interest rates would adversely impact Group profitability as retail and 
corporate business income would decrease due to margin compression. 
This is because the significant reduction in asset income would not be 
offset by a reduction in cost in liabilities due to the presence of a floor 
in our customer deposit and savings rates which are typically set at 
positive level of rates. 

vi) Adverse movements in the pension fund 
Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for defined 
benefit pension schemes could contribute to a pension deficit. The 
liabilities discount rate is a key driver and, in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IAS 19), is derived from the 
yields of high quality corporate bonds (deemed to be those with AA 
ratings) and consequently includes exposure to both risk-free yields and 
credit spreads. Therefore, the Group's defined benefits scheme valuation 
would be adversely affected by a prolonged fall in the discount rate or a 
persistent low rate and/or credit spread environment. Inflation is another 
significant risk driver to the pension fund, as the liabilities are adversely 
impacted by an increase in long-term inflation expectations. However 
in the long term, inflation and rates risk tend to be negatively correlated 
and therefore partially offset each other. 

Operational risk 
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes or 
systems, human factors or due to external events (for example 
fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.

The Group is exposed to many types of operational risk. These include: 
fraudulent and other internal and external criminal activities; breakdowns 
in processes, controls or procedures (or their inadequacy relative to the 
size and scope of the Group's business); systems failures or an attempt 
by an external party to make a service or supporting technological 
infrastructure unavailable to its intended users, known as a denial of 
service attack; and the risk of geopolitical cyber threat activity which 
destabilises or destroys the Group's information technology, or critical 
technological infrastructure the Group depends upon but does not 
control. The Group is also subject to the risk of business disruption 
arising from events wholly or partially beyond its control, for example 
natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics and transport or utility 
failures, which may give rise to losses or reductions in service to 
customers and/or economic loss to the Group. All of these risks are also 
applicable where the Group relies on outside suppliers or vendors to 
provide services to it and its customers. The operational risks that the 
Group is exposed to could change rapidly and there is no guarantee that 
the Group's processes, controls, procedures and systems are sufficient 
to address, or could adapt promptly to, such changing risks to avoid the 
risk of loss.

i) Cyber risk
The risk posed by cyber attacks is growing, with financial institutions 
being a primary target of increasingly capable cyber crime groups, as 
demonstrated by sophisticated targeted attacks against global payment 
networks throughout 2016. The increased maturity of online 
marketplaces for criminal services and stolen data has reduced barriers 
to entry for criminals perpetrating financial attacks which carry high 
reward and low risk of law enforcement prosecution.

The cyber threat increases the inherent risk to the Group's data (whether 
it is held by the Group or in its supply chain), to the integrity of financial 
transactions of the Group, its clients, counterparties and customers, and 
to the availability of the Group's services. Failure to adequately manage 
this risk, and to continually review and update processes, could result in 
increased fraud losses, inability to perform critical economic functions, 
customer detriment, potential regulatory censure and penalty, legal 
liability and reputational damage.

ii) Infrastructure and technology resilience 
The failure of the Group's and its suppliers' technology infrastructures 
remain a material risk driver for the Group. The increased use of 
technologies to support business strategy, and customer and client 
demand, means any failures will be felt more immediately and with 
greater impact.

Failure to adequately manage resilience in our technologies, real-estate, 
and business and suppliers' processes, may result in disruption to 
normal service which could in turn result in significant customer 
detriment, cost to reimburse losses incurred by our customers, potential 
regulatory censure or penalty, and reputational damage.

iii) Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees
The Group requires a diverse mix of highly skilled and qualified 
colleagues to deliver its strategy and so is dependent on attracting and 
retaining appropriately qualified and experienced individuals. Barclays' 
ability to attract and retain such talent is impacted by a range of external 
and internal factors. 

External regulation such as the introduction of the Individual Accountability 
Regime and the required deferral and claw back provisions of our 
compensation arrangements may make Barclays a less attractive proposition 
relative to both our international competitors and other industries. 
Similarly, the impact of the planned exit of the UK from the EU could 
potentially have an impact on our ability to hire and retain key employees.

Failure to attract or prevent the departure of appropriately qualified 
employees who are dedicated to overseeing and managing current and 
future regulatory standards and expectations, or who have the 
necessary skills required to deliver the Group strategy, could negatively 
impact our financial performance, control environment, level of 
employee engagement and may result in disruption to service which 
could in turn lead to customer detriment and reputational damage.

iv) Tax risk
The Group is required to comply with the domestic and international tax 
laws and practice of all countries in which it has business operations. 
There is a risk that the Group could suffer losses due to additional tax 
charges, other financial costs or reputational damage as a result of 
failing to comply with such laws and practice or by failing to manage its 
tax affairs in an appropriate manner. The Group also faces emerging 
risks from domestic and international tax developments. For example, 
the OECD's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (‘BEPS') project, and the 
implementation of its recommendations into domestic law in countries 
around the world, has the potential to significantly increase the 
compliance burden on the Group, as well as to increase the incidence of 
double taxation on the Group as a result of different countries adopting 
different interpretations and approaches to the BEPS recommendations. 

v) Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires 
the use of estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement 
in applying relevant accounting policies. The key areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are 
significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements include 
provisions for conduct and legal, competition and regulatory matters, fair 
value of financial instruments, credit impairment charges for amortised 
cost assets, impairment and valuation of available for sale investments, 
and accounting for pensions and post-retirements benefits. There is a 
risk that if the judgement exercised, or the estimates or assumptions 
used, subsequently turn out to be incorrect, this could result in significant 
loss to the Group, beyond what was anticipated or provided for.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 143

As part of the assets in the Non-Core business, the Group holds a UK 
portfolio of generally longer-term loans to counterparties in Education, 
Social Housing and Local Authorities (ESHLA) sectors, which are 
measured on a fair value basis. The valuation of this portfolio is subject 
to substantial uncertainty due to the long-dated nature of the portfolios, 
the lack of a secondary market in the relevant loans and unobservable 
loan spreads. As a result of these factors, the Group may be required to 
revise the fair values of these portfolios to reflect, among other things, 
changes in valuation methodologies due to changes in industry 
valuation practices and as further market evidence is obtained in 
connection with the Non-Core asset run-off and exit process. For further 
information refer to Note 18 Fair value of financial instruments of the 
Group's consolidated financial statements.

The further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS 
could also significantly impact the financial results, condition and 
prospects of the Group. 

vi) Outsourcing 
The Group depends on suppliers for the provision of many of our 
services, though the Group continues to be accountable for risk arising 
from the actions of such suppliers. Failure to monitor and control our 
suppliers could potentially lead to client information, or our critical 
infrastructures and services, not being adequately protected.

The dependency on suppliers and sub-contracting of outsourced 
services introduces concentration risk where the failure of specific 
suppliers could have an impact on our ability to continue to provide 
services that are material to the Group.

Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk could result in increased 
losses, inability to perform critical economic functions, customer 
detriment, potential regulatory censure and penalty, legal liability 
and reputational damage.

vii) Data quality
The quality of the data used in models across Barclays has a material 
impact on the accuracy and completeness of our risk and financial 
metrics. The evolution of complex modelling underpinning risk decisions, 
forecasting and capital calculations, demands greater precision in our 
data. Failure to manage data standards accordingly may have a material 
adverse effect on the quality of our risk management.

viii) Operational precision and payments
The risk of material errors in operational processes, including payments, 
are exacerbated during the present period of significant levels of 
structural and regulatory change, the evolving technology landscape, 
and a transition to digital channel capabilities.

Material operational or payment errors could disadvantage our 
customers, clients or counterparties and could result in regulatory 
censure and penalties, legal liability and reputational damage.

Model risk 
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial 
assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model 
outputs and reports.

Barclays uses models to support a broad range of business and risk 
management activities, including informing business decisions and 
strategies, measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting 
stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, supporting new business 
acceptance and risk/reward evaluation, managing client assets, or 
meeting reporting requirements.

Models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, and so 
they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their outputs. 
Models may also be misused. Model errors or misuse may result in 
the Group making inappropriate business decisions and being subject 
to financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and/or inadequate 
capital reporting. 

Conduct risk 
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, 
competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial 
services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.

Barclays is committed to ensuring that positive customer and client 
outcomes and protecting market integrity are integral to the way the 
firm operates. This includes taking reasonable steps to ensure our 
culture and strategy are appropriately aligned to these objectives; our 
products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet 
the needs of our customers and clients, as well as maintaining the fair 
and orderly operation of the markets in which we do business.

Certain other risks referenced herein may result in detriment to 
customers, clients and market integrity if not managed effectively. These 
include but are not limited to: cyber risk; infrastructure and technology 
resilience; ability to hire and retain qualified people; outsourcing; 
data quality; operational precision and payments; regulatory change; 
structural reform; change and execution risk; and the exit of the UK 
from the EU. 

i) Execution of strategic divestment in Non-Core businesses
As Barclays executes strategic decisions to exit products, businesses or 
countries, the firm must consider and mitigate any potential detriment 
to customers, clients and market integrity. There is a risk some 
customers and clients may have reduced market access and a limited 
choice of alternative providers, or transitions to alternate providers could 
cause disruptions. There is also a risk the firm's strategic divestments 
may impact market liquidity or result in adverse pricing movements. 
In connection with any country exits, there is a risk that any ongoing 
cross-border activities into those countries are not conducted in 
accordance with local laws and regulations. The crystallisation of 
any of these risks could cause detriment to customers, clients and 
market integrity, as well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss and 
reputational damage. 

ii) Product governance and sales practices
Effective product governance, including design, approval and periodic 
review of products, and appropriate controls over various internal and 
third-party sales channels are critical to ensuring positive outcomes 
for customers and clients. In particular, Barclays must ensure that its 
remuneration practices and performance management framework are 
designed to prevent conflicts of interest and inappropriate sales 
incentives. Failure of product governance and sales controls could result 
in the sale of products and services that fail to meet the needs of, or are 
unsuitable for, customers and clients, regulatory sanctions, financial loss 
and reputational damage. 

iii) Trading controls and benchmark submissions
Maintaining controls over trading activities and benchmark submissions 
is critical to ensuring the trust of our customers, clients and other 
market participants. These controls must be designed to ensure 
compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, as well as to 
prevent market manipulation, unauthorised trading and inadvertent 
errors. A failure of these controls could result in detriment to customers 
and clients, disruptions to market integrity, regulatory sanctions, financial 
loss and reputational damage. The risk of failure could be enhanced by 
the changes necessary to address various new regulations, including but 
not limited to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II.

iv) Financial Crime
The management of Financial Crime remains a key area of regulatory 
focus. Delivering a robust control environment to ensure that the Bank 
effectively manages the risks of Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing, 
Sanctions and Bribery and Corruption protects the Bank, its customers 
and its employees, as well as society at large, from the negative effects 
of financial crime. Failure to maintain an effective control environment 
may lead to regulatory sanctions, financial loss and reputational damage.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
144 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks 
Material existing and emerging risks to the Group's future performance

v) Data protection and privacy
The proper handling of data and protection of data privacy is critical 
to developing trust and sustaining long-term relationships with our 
customers and clients. Inadequate protection of data (including data 
held and managed by third party suppliers) could lead to security 
compromise, data loss, financial loss and other potential detriment to 
our customers and clients, as well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss 
and reputational damage. The risk of failure could be enhanced by the 
changes necessary to address various new regulations, including but 
not limited to the EU Data Protection Initiative.

vi) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Various regulators around the world have emphasised the importance 
of culture and personal accountability in helping to ensure appropriate 
conduct and drive positive outcomes for customers, clients and markets 
integrity. Regulatory changes such as the new UK Senior Managers 
Regime and Conduct Rules coming into effect in 2017, along with similar 
regulations in other jurisdictions, will require Barclays to enhance its 
organisational and operational governance to evidence its effective 
management of culture and accountability. Failure to meet these new 
requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, 
financial loss and reputational damage. 

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will 
reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by clients, 
counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.

Climate change, human rights and support for the defence sector
Any one transaction, investment or event that, in the perception of key 
stakeholders reduces their trust in the firm's integrity and competence, 
may have the potential to give rise to risk to Barclays reputation. 
Barclays' association with sensitive sectors is often an area of concern 
for stakeholders and the following topics have been of particular interest:

Fossil fuels: As the Paris agreement on CO2 emissions comes into force, 
banks are coming under increased pressure from civil society, 
shareholders and potentially national governments regarding the 
management and disclosure of their climate risks and opportunities, 
including the activities of certain sections of their client base; 

Human Trafficking: The UK Modern Slavery Act came into force in 
October 2015 and with the scrutiny of global business investments 
rising, the risks of association with human rights violations are growing 
within the banking sector, through the perceived indirect involvement in 
human rights abuses committed by clients and customers. Campaigners 
have been seeking to hold all parties in the value chain to account for 
environmental and human rights violations where they occur; and

Defence Sector: Supporting the manufacture and export of military and 
riot control goods and services continues to require significant review 
internally in order to ensure compliance with all relevant requirements 
and to avoid reputational damage.

Legal risk
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines 
from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including 
regulatory or contractual requirements.

Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines and other sanctions 
relating to conduct of business and breaches of legislation and/or 
regulations may negatively affect the Group's results, reputation and 
ability to conduct its business.

The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global 
market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions 
relating to the conduct of its business. In recent years authorities have 
increasingly investigated past practices, pursued alleged breaches 
and imposed heavy penalties on financial services firms. This trend 
is expected to continue. A breach of applicable legislation and/or 
regulations could result in the Group or its staff being subject to 
criminal prosecution, regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions in 
the jurisdictions in which it operates, particularly in the UK and the US. 
Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the 

Group's conduct, this may also give rise to legal proceedings, including 
class actions. Other legal disputes may also arise between the Group 
and third parties relating to matters such as breaches, enforcement of 
legal rights or obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common 
law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Group being 
liable to third parties seeking damages, or may result in the Group's 
rights not being enforced as intended. 

Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the 
Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 29 legal, competition 
and regulatory matters. In addition to matters specifically described in 
Note 29, the Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings in the 
UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions which arise in 
the ordinary course of business. The Group is also subject to requests 
for information, investigations and other reviews by regulators, 
governmental and other public bodies in connection with business 
activities in which the Group is or has been engaged. The Group is 
keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these 
matters on an ongoing basis. In light of the uncertainties involved in 
legal, competition and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance 
that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material 
to the Group's results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, 
depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the loss resulting 
from the matter(s) and the amount of income otherwise reported for 
the period. 

The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those 
to which the Group is currently exposed and any others which may arise 
in the future, is difficult to predict. However, in connection with such 
matters the Group may incur significant expense, regardless of the 
ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Group to 
any of the following: substantial monetary damages and/or fines; 
remediation of affected customers and clients; other penalties and 
injunctive relief; additional litigation; criminal prosecution in certain 
circumstances; the loss of any existing agreed protection from 
prosecution; regulatory restrictions on the Group's business operations 
including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased regulatory 
compliance requirements; suspension of operations; public reprimands; 
loss of significant assets or business; a negative effect on the Group's 
reputation; loss of investor confidence and/or dismissal or resignation 
of key individuals. 

In January 2017, Barclays PLC was sentenced to serve three years of 
probation from the date of the sentencing order in accordance with the 
terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the DOJ. During the term of 
probation Barclays PLC must, amongst other things, (i) commit no crime 
whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) implement and 
continue to implement a compliance programme designed to prevent 
and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and (iii) 
strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by relevant 
regulatory or enforcement agencies. Potential consequences of 
breaching the plea agreement include the imposition of additional terms 
and conditions on the Group, an extension of the agreement, or the 
criminal prosecution of Barclays PLC, which could, in turn, entail further 
financial penalties and collateral consequences and have a material 
adverse effect on the Group's business, operating results or financial 
position.

There is also a risk that the outcome of any legal, competition or 
regulatory matters in which the Group is involved may give rise to 
changes in law or regulation as part of a wider response by relevant law 
makers and regulators. A decision in any matter, either against the 
Group or another financial institution facing similar claims, could lead 
to further claims against the Group.  

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 145

Risk review
Risk management

An overview of Barclays'  
approach to risk management 

Page

Barclays' risk management strategy
Introduction 146
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 146
Principal Risks 146
Risk Appetite for the Principals Risks 146
Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk 146
Barclays' Risk Culture 148

Credit risk management
Overview 149
Organisation and structure 149
Roles and responsibilities 150
Credit risk mitigation 150

Market risk management
Overview 151
Organisation and structure 151
Roles and responsibilities 151

Treasury and capital risk management
Overview 152
Organisation and structure 152
Liquidity risk 153
Capital risk 154
Interest rate risk in the banking book 156

Operational risk management
Overview 157
Organisation and structure 157
Roles and responsibilities 158

Model risk management
Overview 159
Organisation and structure 159
Roles and responsibilities 159

Conduct risk management
Overview 160
Organisation and structure 160
Roles and responsibilities 160

Reputation risk management
Overview 161
Organisation and structure 161
Roles and responsibilities 161

Legal risk management
Overview 162
Organisation and structure 162
Roles and responsibilities 162

 For a more detailed breakdown on our risk review and risk 
management contents please see pages 134 to 135. 
More detailed information on how Barclays manages these 
risks can be found in Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
146 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk management
Barclays' risk management strategy

Introduction
Barclays engages in activities which entail risk taking, every day, 
throughout its business. This section introduces these risks, and outlines 
key governance arrangements for managing them. These include roles 
and responsibilities, frameworks, policies and standards, assurance and 
lessons learned processes. The Group's approach to fostering a strong 
Risk Culture is also described.

Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF)
The Group has clear risk management objectives and a strategy to 
deliver them through core risk management processes. The ERMF 
sets the strategic direction by defining clear standards, objectives and 
responsibilities for all areas of Barclays. It supports the CEO and CRO 
in embedding effective risk management and a strong Risk Culture.

The ERMF sets out:
■■ Principal Risks faced by the Group
■■ Risk Appetite requirements 
■■ Roles and responsibilities for risk management 
■■ Risk Committee structure.

A revised ERMF was approved by the Board in December 2016. This 
includes a revised risk taxonomy comprising eight Principal Risks. Credit, 
market, funding, operational and conduct risks have been aligned to this 
new taxonomy and the management of these risks has not materially 
changed. Model risk, reputation risk and legal risk are newly classified 
as Principal Risks in the latest version of the ERMF, reflecting the 
heightened importance of these risk types in the current environment. 
In 2016, Model risk was managed in accordance with dedicated policies 
linked to the ERMF. These policies supplemented the key risk control 
frameworks underlying the financial risk types and applied to all 
businesses and functions in which financial risks were incurred or 
managed. Reputation risk was considered as part of conduct risk and 
legal risk was included as a sub-risk type under operational risk. In this 
Annual Report, the Risk Management sections (page 145 to 162) follow 
the new Principal Risk taxonomy of eight risks, reflecting our current 
approach to risk management. The Risk Performance sections (pages 164 
to 228) follow the Principal Risk taxonomy (of five risks) which prevailed 
during 2016. Information on reputation risk performance in 2016 is 
included as part of the Conduct Risk section. Information on legal risk 
performance in 2016 can be found in the Material Existing and Emerging 
Risks section (page 136 to 144), the Supervision and Regulation section 
(page 229 to 236) and Note 29 to the Financial Statements (page 333 
to 338). The definition of the Three Lines of Defence and associated 
responsibilities were also revised. The ERMF also contains a revised 
governance structure, including new Group and Business Risk committees, 
with representation from the first and second lines of defence.

Principal Risks
The ERMF identifies Principal Risks and sets out responsibilities and 
risk management standards. Note that Legal, Reputation and Model 
risks are Principal Risks from January 2017 following Board approval 
in December 2016.

Financial Principal Risks:
■■ Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, 

customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour 
their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely payment 
of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables

■■ Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in 
the value of the firm's assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market 
variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, 
equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations

■■ Treasury and capital risk: This comprises: 
 – Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or 
contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets

 – Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or 
composition of capital to support its normal business activities and 
to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating 
environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for 
internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This includes the 
risk from the firm's pension plans

 – Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed 
to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the 
interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

Non-Financial Principal Risks:
■■ Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed 

processes or systems, human factors or due to external events (for 
example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market 
risks.

■■ Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse consequences from 
financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused 
model outputs and reports.

■■ Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, investment or 
event will reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by 
clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.

■■ Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market 
integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply 
of financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct.

■■ Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines 
from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including 
regulatory or contractual requirements.

Risk Appetite for the Principal Risks
Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk which the firm is prepared to 
accept in the conduct of its activities. The Risk Appetite of the firm:

■■ specifies the level of risk we are willing to take and why, to enable 
specific risk taking activities

■■ considers all Principal Risks individually and, where appropriate, in 
aggregate 

■■ communicates the acceptable level of risk for different risk types; this 
may be expressed in financial or non-financial terms, and is measured 
and effectively monitored

■■ describes agreed parameters for the firm's performance under varying 
levels of financial stress with respect to profitability

■■ is considered in key decision-making processes, including business 
planning, mergers and acquisitions, new product approvals and 
business change initiatives. 

Risk Appetite is approved and disseminated across legal entities and 
businesses, including by use of Mandate and Scale limits to enable 
and control specific activities that have material concentration risk 
implications for the firm. These limits also help reduce the likelihood and 
size of one-off losses. The Risk Appetite must be formally reviewed on at 
least an annual frequency in conjunction with the Medium Term 
Planning (MTP) process and approved by the Board. 

Roles and responsibilities in the management 
of risk – the Three Lines of Defence
All colleagues have a responsibility to contribute to the risk management 
of the Group. These responsibilities are set out in the “Three Lines of 
Defence”. In 2016 these definitions were simplified. Regardless of their 
function, all teams who manage processes in the firm are responsible for 
designing, implementing, remediating, monitoring and testing the 
controls for those processes.

First Line of Defence:
The First Line comprises all employees engaged in the revenue 
generating and client facing areas of the firm and all associated support 
functions, including Finance, Treasury, Technology and Operations, 
Human Resources etc. Employees in the first line are responsible for:

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 147

■■ identifying all the risks in the activities in which they are engaged, and 
developing appropriate policies, standards and controls to govern their 
activities

■■ operating within any and all limits which the Risk and Compliance 
functions establish in connection with the Risk Appetite of the firm 

■■ escalating risk events to senior managers and Risk and Compliance.

Internal controls are critical to running a cost-effective and stable 
business. To ensure these controls remain strong, sustainable, and 
efficient the new strategic position of Chief Controls Officer has been 
created. The Chief Controls Office will help to maintain and enhance an 
effective and consistent control framework across the organisation.

The First Line must establish their own policies and controls (subject 
to the Controls Framework of the firm), particularly with respect to 
operational activities, and require their colleagues to manage all controls 
to specified tolerances. These control-related activities are also considered 
First Line and are permitted so long as they are within any applicable limits 
established by Risk or Compliance. All activities in the first line are subject 
to oversight from the relevant parts of the second and third lines.

Second Line of Defence:
Employees of Risk and Compliance comprise the Second Line of 
Defence. The role of the Second Line is to establish the limits, rules  
and constraints under which first line activities shall be performed, 
consistent with the Risk Appetite of the firm, and to monitor the 
performance of the First Line against these limits and constraints.

The Second Line may not establish limits for all First Line activities, 
especially those related to Operational Risk. The controls for these will 
ordinarily be established by Controls Officers operating within the 
Controls Framework of the firm, under the oversight of the Second Line.

The Second Line can also undertake certain additional activities if, in the 
judgement of the Group CRO, this will reduce the firm's exposure to risk.

Third Line of Defence:
Employees of Internal Audit comprise the Third Line of Defence. 
They provide independent assurance to the Board and Executive 
Management over the effectiveness of governance, risk management 
and control over current, systemic and evolving risks.

The Legal department does not sit in any of the three lines, but supports 
them all. The Legal department is, however, subject to oversight from 
Risk and Compliance, with respect to Operational and Conduct risks.

Roles and responsibilities in the management 
of risk – risk committees
Business Risk Committees consider risk matters relevant to their 
business, and escalate as required to the Group Risk Committee (GRC), 
whose Chairman in turn escalates to Board Committees and the Board. 

There are five Board-level fora which review and monitor risk across the 
Group. These are: The main Board, the Board Risk Committee, the Board 
Audit Committee, the Board Reputation Committee and the Board 
Remuneration Committee.

The Chairman of each Committee prepares a statement each year on the 
committee's activities, which is included in this report from page 54 to 76.

Board

Group ExCo

Board 
Risk Committee

Group Risk Committees

Business Risk Committees

Board 
Audit Committee

Remuneration 
Review Panel

Board Committees

Management Level
Committees/Forums

BusinessLevel
Committees/Forums

Board 
Reputation 
Committee

Board 
Remuneration 
Committee

The Board
One of the Board's (Board of Directors of Barclays PLC) responsibilities is 
the approval of Risk Appetite (see the Risk Management and Strategy 
section on page 146), which is the level of risk the Group chooses to 
take in pursuit of its business objectives. The Group CRO (GCRO) 
regularly presents a report to the Board summarising developments in 
the risk environment and performance trends in the key portfolios. The 
Board is also responsible for the ERMF. It oversees the management of 
the most significant risks through regular review of risk exposures. Executive 
management responsibilities relating to this are set out in the ERMF. 

The Board Risk Committee (BRC)
The BRC monitors the Group's risk profile against the agreed financial 
appetite. Where actual performance differs from expectations, the 
actions taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the BRC is 
comfortable with them. After each meeting, the Chairman of the BRC 
prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board. All members are 
independent executive directors. The Group Finance Director (GFD) and 
the GCRO attend each meeting as a matter of course. 

The BRC also considers the Group's risk appetite statement for 
operational risk and evaluates the Group's operational risk profile and 
operational risk monitoring.

The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk 
methodologies, the effectiveness of the risk management framework, 
and the Group's risk profile, including the key issues affecting each 
business portfolio and forward risk trends. The Committee also 
commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are 
presented by the CRO or senior risk managers in the businesses.

The Board Reputation Committee (RepCo)
The RepCo reviews management's recommendations on conduct and 
reputational risk and the effectiveness of the processes by which the 
Group identifies and manages these risks. It also reviews and monitors the 
effectiveness of Barclays' Citizenship strategy, including the management 
of Barclays' economic, social and environmental contribution.

In addition, the Board Audit and Board Remuneration Committees receive 
regular risk reports to assist them in the undertaking of their duties.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
148 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk management
Barclays' risk management strategy

The Board Audit Committee (BAC)
The BAC receives regular reports on the effectiveness of internal control 
systems, quarterly reports on material control issues of significance, 
and quarterly papers on accounting judgements (including impairment). 
It also receives a quarterly review of the adequacy of impairment 
allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, 
the business environment, the Group's policies and methodologies and 
the performance trends of peer banks. The Chairman of the BAC also 
sits on the BRC.

The Board Remuneration Committee (RemCo)
The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk management performance 
from the BRC, regular updates on the risk profile and proposals on 
an ex-ante and ex-post risk adjustments to variable remuneration. 
These inputs are considered in the setting of performance incentives.

Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management 
experience of the Directors of the Board are presented in the Board of 
Directors section on pages 51 to 52. The terms of reference and 
additional details on membership and activities for each of the principal 
Board Committees are available from the Corporate Governance section 
at home.barclays/about-barclays/barclays-corporate-governance/
board-committees.

Barclays' Risk Culture
Barclays defines Risk Culture as “norms, attitudes and behaviours related 
to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management”. At Barclays this is 
reflected in how we identify, escalate and manage risk matters.

Our Code of Conduct – the Barclays Way
Globally, all colleagues must attest to the “Barclays Way”, our Code of 
Conduct, and all frameworks, policies and standards applicable to their 
roles. The Code of Conduct outlines the Purpose and Values which 
govern our Barclays Way of working across our business globally. It 
constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues' working 
relationships, specifically (but not exclusively) with other Barclays 
employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, 
business partners, suppliers, competitors and the broader community.

Definition of Risk Culture and its determinants
We review our culture through the lens of four “determinants”, 
associated with desired outcomes:
■■ Management and governance: Consistent tone from the top; 
responsibilities are clear to enable identification and challenge 

■■ Motivation and incentives: The right behaviours are rewarded 
and modelled 

■■ Competence and effectiveness: Colleagues are enabled to identify, 
coordinate, escalate and address risk and control matters 

■■ Integrity: Colleagues are willing to meet their risk management 
responsibilities; colleagues escalate issues on a timely basis. 

Management and governance
Leaders must demonstrate through their everyday behaviours the 
importance of strong risk management and ensure that their teams 
have sufficient resource and capability to manage the risk environment.

The simplification of the Three Lines of Defence, as well as the 
reorganisation of business and risk committees with First and Second 
Lines of defence representation, promote ownership and accountabilities 
for risk management.  

Motivation and incentives
Barclays seeks to ensure that compensation and promotion decisions 
take account of risk behaviours.
Management of risk and control is assessed as part of the annual 
performance appraisal process for all colleagues globally. Positive risk 
management behaviours will be rewarded and considered as part of 
promotion decisions, particularly to Managing Director. 

Competence and effectiveness
A risk capability scorecard was developed for the Board Risk Committee 
to monitor and measure capability, and to identify any areas for 
improvement. Barclays has also appointed a Chief Risk Officer for 
Treasury and Capital and a Head of Model Risk Management.

Integrity
The “Being Barclays” global induction supports new colleagues in 
understanding how risk management culture and practices support how 
the Group does business and the link to Barclays' values. The Leadership 
Curriculum covers building, sustaining and supporting a trustworthy 
organisation and is offered to colleagues globally.

The continued promotion and reinforcement of Barclays' Values, as well 
as the Barclays Way was reflected in the near-perfect rate of completion 
of related training by employees. Messages and communications from 
the Chief Risk Officer emphasise the importance of early escalation of 
risk issues. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 149

Risk reviewRisk review

Overview 
The granting of credit is one of the Group's major sources of income 
and, as a Principal Risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources to 
its control. The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from 
wholesale and retail loans and advances together with the counterparty 
credit risk arising from derivative contracts with clients. Other sources 
of credit risk arise from trading activities, including: debt securities, 
settlement balances with market counterparties; available for sale assets; 
and reverse repurchase agreements.

Credit risk management objectives are to:
■■ maintain a framework of controls to ensure credit risk taking is based 

on sound credit risk management principles

■■ identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across 
the Group and within each separate business, from the level of 
individual facilities up to the total portfolio

■■ control and plan credit risk taking in line with external stakeholder 
expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations

■■ monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls

■■ ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.

 More information of the reporting of credit risk can be found in 
Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report. 

Organisation and structure
Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed separately to reflect the 
differing nature of the assets; wholesale balances tend to be larger in 
value and are managed on an individual basis, while retail balances are 
larger in number but smaller in value and are, therefore, managed on a 
homogenous portfolio basis.

Credit risk management responsibilities have been structured so that 
decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, while ensuring 
robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and 
strategic plans. The credit risk management teams in each business are 
accountable to the relevant Business CRO who, in turn, reports to the 
Group CRO.

Board oversight and flow of risk related information

Board Risk Committee

Wholesale & Retail Credit Risk Committees

Wholesale & Retail Credit Risk Committees
■ monitors the wholesale and retail credit risk profiles against plan and agrees any required actions
■ reviews key retail and wholesale risk issues
■ reviews credit risk policies and frameworks
■ monitors risk appetite consumption – Key Credit Portfolio (Mandate & Scale Limits)

Business Unit Risk Committees

Group Risk Committee

Organisation and structure

Credit risk
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of 
clients, customers or counterparties, including 
sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations 
to the firm, including the whole and timely 
payment of principal, interest, collateral and 
other receivables.

Risk management
Credit risk management

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
150 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk management
Credit risk management

Roles and responsibilities
The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the 
businesses, the sanctioning team and other shared services include: 
sanctioning new credit agreements (principally wholesale); setting 
policies for approval of transactions (principally retail); setting risk 
appetite; monitoring risk against limits and other parameters; 
maintaining robust processes, data gathering, quality, storage and 
reporting methods for effective credit risk management; performing 
effective turnaround and workout scenarios for wholesale portfolios 
via dedicated restructuring and recoveries teams; maintaining robust 
collections and recovery processes/units for retail portfolios; and review 
and validation of credit risk measurement models.

For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval is undertaken by 
experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly defined 
delegated authority framework, with only the most senior credit officers 
entrusted with the higher levels of delegated authority. The largest credit 
exposures, which are outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk 
Distribution Committee authority require the support of the Group 
Senior Credit Officer (GSCO), the Group's most senior credit risk 
sanctioner. For exposures in excess of the GSCO's authority, approval 
by Group CRO is required. In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk 
managers are organised in sanctioning teams by geography, industry 
and/or product.

The role of the Central Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, 
oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking. Central Risk sets the Credit 
Risk Control Framework, which provides the structure within which 
credit risk is managed, together with supporting credit risk policies.

Credit risk mitigation
The Group employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively 
mitigate the counterparty credit risks. These can broadly be divided 
into three types:
■■ netting and set-off
■■ collateral
■■ risk transfer.

Netting and set-off
In most jurisdictions in which the Group operates, credit risk exposures 
can be reduced by applying netting and set-off. In exposure terms, 
this credit risk mitigation technique has the largest overall impact on 
net exposure to derivative transactions, compared with other risk 
mitigation techniques.

For derivative transactions, the Group's normal practice is to enter 
into standard master agreements with counterparties (e.g. ISDAs). 
These master agreements typically allow for netting of credit risk 
exposure to a counterparty resulting from derivative transactions 
against the obligations to the counterparty in the event of default, and 
so produce a lower net credit exposure. These agreements may also 
reduce settlement exposure (e.g. for foreign exchange transactions) by 
allowing payments on the same day in the same currency to be set-off 
against one another.

Collateral
The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default 
of the counterparty, comprising:
■■ home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form 

of houses, flats and other dwellings
■■ wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and other 

physical assets, in various forms
■■ other retail lending: includes charges over motor vehicles and other 

physical assets, second lien charges over residential property, and 
finance lease receivables

■■ derivatives: the Group also often seeks to enter into a margin 
agreement (e.g. CSA) with counterparties with which the Group has 
master netting agreements in place

■■ reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly 
liquid securities which have been legally transferred to the Group 
subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price

■■ financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: 
cash collateral may be held against these arrangements.

Risk transfer
A range of instruments including guarantees, credit insurance, credit 
derivatives and securitisations can be used to transfer credit risk from 
one counterparty to another. These mitigate credit risk in two main 
ways:
■■ if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more credit worthy 

than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk is reduced
■■ where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties 

must default before a loss materialises. This is less likely than the 
default of either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced.

Detailed policies are in place to ensure that credit risk mitigation is 
appropriately recognised and recorded and more information can be 
found in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 151

Risk review

Overview
Market risk
Market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in wholesale 
markets, involving market making activities, risk management solutions 
and execution of syndications. Upon execution of a trade with a client, 
the Group will look to hedge against the risk of the trade moving in an 
adverse direction. Mismatches between client transactions and hedges 
result in market risk due to changes in asset prices. 

Market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Barclays International, 
Group Treasury and Non-Core. These businesses have the mandate to 
incur market risk. 

Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business committees 
and Group committees, including the Market Risk Committee.

Roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management are to: 

■■ understand and control market risk by robust measurement, 
limit setting, reporting and oversight

■■ facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent 
risk management framework

■■ ensure that market risk in the businesses is controlled according 
to the allocated appetite

■■ support the Non-Core strategy of asset reductions by ensuring 
that market risk remains within agreed risk appetite.

To ensure the above objectives are met, a well-established governance 
structure is in place to manage these risks consistent with the ERMF. 
See page 146 on risk management strategy, governance and risk culture. 

The BRC recommends market risk appetite to the Board for their 
approval. The Market Risk Principal Risk Officer (MRPRO) is responsible 
for the Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority 
from the CRO, agrees with the BCROs a limit framework within the 
context of the approved market risk appetite.

Across the Group, market risk oversight and challenge is provided by 
business committees, Group committees, including the Market Risk 
Committee.

The Market Risk Committee approves and makes recommendations 
concerning the Group-wide market risk profile. This includes overseeing 
the operation of the Market Risk Framework and associated standards 
and policies; reviewing arising market or regulatory issues, limits and 
utilisation; and risk appetite levels to the Board. The Committee is 
chaired by the MRPRO and attendees include the business heads of 
market risk, business aligned market risk managers and Internal Audit.

The head of each business is accountable for all market risks associated 
with its activities, while the head of the market risk team covering each 
business is responsible for implementing the risk control framework for 
market risk.

More information on market risk management can be found in 
Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Market risk
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse 
changes in the value of the firm's assets and 
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables 
including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity 
prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

Board Risk Committee

Organisation and structure

Group Risk Committee
■ monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite
■ debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group
■ considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors

Market Risk Committee
■ oversees the management of the Group's market risk profile
■ reviews market risk appetite proposals from the businesses
■ reviews arising market or regulatory issues
■ reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses

Risk management
Market risk management

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
152 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Overview
Barclays Treasury manages treasury and capital risk on a day-to-day 
basis with the Treasury Committee acting as the principal management 
body. To ensure effective oversight and segregation of duties and in line 
with the ERMF, the Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for 
oversight of key capital and liquidity risk management activities.

To ensure effective oversight and segregation of duties and in line with 
the ERMF, the Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for 
oversight of key capital, liquidity, non-traded market risk (NTMR) and 
pension risk management activities. The following describes the 
structure and governance associated with the risk types within the 
Treasury and Capital Risk function. 

Treasury and capital risk
The risk that the Group may not achieve its 
business plans because of the availability of 
planned liquidity, a shortfall in capital or a 
mismatch in the interest rate exposures of 
its assets and liabilities. The Treasury and 
Capital Risk function is an independent risk 
function with responsibility for oversight of 
the following risks: 
■■ ■Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is 

unable to meet its contractual or contingent 
obligations or that it does not have the 
appropriate amount, tenor and composition 
of funding and liquidity to support its assets

■■ ■Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an 
insufficient level or composition of capital 
to support its normal business activities and 
to meet its regulatory capital requirements 
under normal operating environments or 
stressed conditions (both actual and as 
defined for internal planning or regulatory 
testing purposes). This includes the risk 
from the firm's pension plans

■■ ■Interest rate risk in the banking book: 
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital 
or income volatility because of a mismatch 
between the interest rate exposures of its 
(non-traded) assets and liabilities.

Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 153

Liquidity risk management
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in 
retaining the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that 
the business is sustainable. There is a control framework in place for 
managing liquidity risk and this is designed to meet the following 
objectives:

■■ to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and 
quality and a funding profile that is appropriate to meet the liquidity 
risk appetite as expressed by the Board

■■ to maintain market confidence in the Group's name.

This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and 
governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring. 
Together, these meet internal and regulatory requirements. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for the 
management and governance of the liquidity risk mandate defined 
by the Board. Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing 
liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. 

Liquidity risk management
A control framework is in place for Liquidity Risk under which the 
Treasury function operates. The control framework describes liquidity 
risk management processes, associated policies and controls that the 
Group has implemented to manage liquidity risk within the Liquidity Risk 
Appetite (LRA) and is subject to annual review.  

The Board sets the LRA over Group stress tests and is represented as 
the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business 
objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations. The approved 
LRA is implemented in line with the control framework and policy for 
liquidity risk.

Control framework
Barclays has a comprehensive  control framework for managing the 
Group's liquidity risk. It is designed to deliver the appropriate term and 
structure of funding consistent with the LRA set by the Board.

The control framework incorporates a range of ongoing business 
management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Group's balance 
sheet and contingent liabilities and a Contingency Funding Plan. Limit 
setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the 
level of liquidity risk taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds. 
Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event 
could lead to an inability to meet the Group's obligations as they fall due. 

The stress tests assess the potential contractual and contingent stress 
outflows under a range of scenarios, which are then used to determine 
the size of the liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet 
anticipated outflows if a stress occurs.

The Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which details how 
liquidity stress events of varying severity would be managed. Since 
the precise nature of any stress event cannot be known in advance, 
the plans are designed to be flexible to the nature and severity of the 
stress event and provide a menu of options that can be drawn upon 
as required. Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider 
actions to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery 
in a severe stress.

Risk Appetite and planning
Barclays has established a LRA over Group stress tests and is 
represented as the level of liquidity risk the Group chooses to take in 
pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations. 

The key expression of the liquidity risk is through stress tests. It is 
measured with reference to the liquidity pool compared to anticipated 
stressed net contractual and contingent outflows for each of five stress 
scenarios. Barclays has defined both internal short-term and long-term 
LRA stress test metrics. 

The LRA for internal stress tests is approved by the Board. The LRA is 
reviewed on a continuous basis and is subject to formal review at least 
annually as part of the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ILAAP).

The stress outflows are used to determine the size of the Group Liquidity 
Pool, which represents those resources immediately available to meet 
outflows in a stress. In addition to the liquidity pool, the control 
framework and policy provides for other management actions, including 
generating liquidity from other liquid assets on the Group's balance 
sheet in order to meet additional stress outflows, or to preserve or 
restore the Liquidity Pool in the event of a liquidity stress.

Liquidity limits
Barclays manages limits on a variety of on- and off-balance sheet 
exposures, a sample of which is shown in the table below. These limits 
serve to control the overall extent and composition of liquidity risk taken 
by managing exposure to the cash outflows.

Early warning indicators
Barclays monitors a range of market indicators for early signs of liquidity 
risk either in the market or specific to Barclays, a sample of which are 
shown in the table below. These are designed to immediately identify 
the emergence of increased liquidity risk to maximise the time available 
to execute appropriate mitigating actions. Early warning indicators are 
used as part of the assessment of whether to invoke the Group's 
Contingency Funding Plan (CFP). 

Contingency funding plan and recovery and resolution planning
Barclays maintains a CFP which is designed to provide a framework 
where a liquidity stress could be effectively managed. The CFP is 
proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business and is 
tested to ensure that it is operationally robust. The CFP details the 
circumstances in which the plan could be invoked, including as a result 
of adverse movements in liquidity early warning indicators. As part of the 
plan, the Barclays Treasurer has established a Liquidity Management 
Committee (LMC). On invocation of the CFP by the Executive 
Committee, the LMC would meet to identify the likely impact of 

■ Stress testing and planning
■ Liquidity limits
■ Early warning indicators

■ Monitoring and review
■ Management actions 

not requiring business 
rationalisation

■ Activate Contingency 
Funding Plan

■ Management actions 
with a positive impact 
on the franchise

■ Activate appropriate 
recovery options to restore 
the capital and/or liquidity 
position of the Group

■ Ensure an orderly resolution 
can be carried out if 
necessary, without adverse 
systemic risk or exposing 
the public funds to loss

Ongoing business
management

Early signs/
Mild stress

Severe stress Recovery Resolution

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
154 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

the event on the Group and determine the appropriate response 
for the nature and severity of the stress.

The CFP provides a communication plan and includes management 
actions to respond to liquidity stresses of varying severity. This could 
include monetising the liquidity pool, slowing the extension of credit, 
increasing the tenor of funding and securitising or selling assets. 

Capital risk management
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management 
of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital 
governance framework. 

Organisation and structure
The management of capital risk is integral to the Group's approach to 
financial stability and sustainability management, and is embedded in 
the way businesses and legal entities operate.

Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and 
policy. The capital management strategy, outlined in the Group and 
legal entity capital plans, is developed in alignment with the control 
framework and policy for capital risk, and is implemented consistently 
in order to deliver on the Group's objectives.

The Board approves the Group capital plan, internal and regulatory 
stress tests, and the Group recovery plan. The Treasury Committee is 
responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the 
Group's capital management objectives, capital plan and risk 
frameworks. The Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and 
annually reviews risk appetite and the impact of stress scenarios on 
the Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree the Group's projected 
capital adequacy. 

Local management ensures compliance with an entity's minimum 
regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability 
Committees with oversight by the Group's Treasury Committee, 
as required.

Roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring 
capital and reports to the Group Finance Director. The Treasury and 
Capital Risk function contains a Capital Risk Oversight team, and is 
an independent risk function that reports to the Group CRO and is 
responsible for oversight of capital risk.

Capital risk management
The Group's capital management strategy is driven by the strategic 
aims of the Group and the risk appetite set by the Board. The Group's 
objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management 
practices.

Capital planning and allocation
The Group assesses its capital requirements on multiple bases, with the 
Group's capital plan set in consideration of the Group's risk profile and 
appetite, strategic and performance objectives, regulatory requirements, 
and market and internal factors, including the results of stress testing. 
The capital plan is managed on a top-down and bottom-up basis 
through both short-term and medium-term financial planning cycles, 
and is developed with the objective of ensuring that the Group 
maintains an adequate level of capital to support its capital 
requirements. 

The PRA determines the regulatory capital requirements for the 
consolidated Group. Under these regulatory frameworks, capital 
requirements are set in consideration of the level of risk that the firm 
is exposed to and the factors above, and are measured through both 
risk-based 'RWAs' and leverage-based metrics. An internal assessment 
of the Bank's capital adequacy is undertaken through the Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and is used to inform 
the capital requirements of the firm. 

Primary objectives Core practices

Support a strong credit rating. Maintain capital ratios aligned 
with rating agency expectations.

Ensure the Group and legal entities 
maintain adequate capital to 
withstand the impact of the risks 
that may arise under the stressed 
conditions analysed by the Group. 

■ Meet minimum regulatory 
requirements in all jurisdictions

■ Maintain capital buffers over 
regulatory minimums

■ Perform Group-wide internal 
and regulatory stress tests

■ Develop contingency plans for 
severe and extreme stresses, 
which include stress management 
actions and recovery actions.

Maintain adequate capital to cover 
the Group's current and forecast 
business needs and associated 
risks in order to provide a viable 
and sustainable business offering.

Maintain a capital plan on a 
short-term and medium-term basis 
aligned with the Group's strategic 
objectives, balancing capital 
generation of the business with 
business growth and shareholder 
distributions.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 155

The Group expects to meet the minimum requirements for capital and 
leverage both during the transition period and upon full implementation, 
and also holds an internal buffer sized according to the firm's 
assessment of capital risk. 

Through the capital planning process, capital allocations are approved 
by the Group Executive Committee, taking into consideration the risk 
appetite and strategic aims of the Group. Regulated legal entities are, 
at a minimum, capitalised to meet their current and forecast regulatory 
and business requirements. 

Monitoring and reporting
Capital is managed and monitored to ensure that Barclays' capital 
plans remain appropriate and that risks to the plans are considered.

Limits are in place to support alignment with the capital plan and 
adherence to regulatory requirements, and are monitored through 
appropriately governed forums. Capital risks against firm-specific and 
macroeconomic early warning indicators are monitored and reported 
to the Treasury Committee, with clear escalation channels to senior 
management. This enables a consistent and objective approach to 
monitoring the capital outlook against the capital plan, and supports 
the early identification when outlooks deteriorate. 

Capital management information is readily available to support 
the Senior Management's strategic and day-to-day business 
decision making.

Stress testing and risk mitigation
Internal Group-wide stress testing is undertaken to quantify and 
understand the impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital 
ratios arising from stressed macroeconomic conditions. Recent 
economic, market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the 
assumptions developed for internal stress tests and to assess the 
effectiveness of mitigation strategies.

The Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the BoE and 
EBA, and legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local 
regulators. These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality 
of the internal capital buffer required and the results are incorporated 
into the Group capital plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal 
and severe, but plausible stressed conditions.

Actions are identified as part of the stress tests that can be taken 
to mitigate the risks that may arise in the event of material adverse 
changes in the current economic and business outlook. As an additional 
layer of protection, the Group Recovery Plan defines the actions and 
implementation strategies available to the Group to increase or preserve 
capital resources in the situation that a stress occurs that is more severe 
than anticipated. 

Transferability of capital
Surplus capital held in Group entities is required to be repatriated to 
Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends and/or capital repatriation, 
subject to local regulatory requirements, exchange controls and tax 
implications. This approach provides optimal flexibility on the 
redeployment of capital across legal entities. Pre and post the 
implementation of ring-fencing, capital is managed for the Group 
as a whole as well as its operating subsidiaries to ensure fungibility 
and redeployment of capital while meeting relevant internal and 
regulatory targets at entity levels.

Foreign exchange risk
The Group has capital resources and RWAs denominated in foreign 
currencies. Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in 
the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital 
resources and RWAs. As a result, the Group's regulatory capital ratios 
are sensitive to foreign currency movements.

The Group's capital ratio management strategy is to minimise 
the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate 
movements. To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of 
foreign currency CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital resources to foreign 
currency RWAs the same as the Group's consolidated capital ratios.

The Group's investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches, 
to the extent that they are not hedged for foreign exchange movements, 
translate into GBP upon consolidation creating CET1 capital resources 
sensitive to foreign currency movements. Changes in the GBP value of 
the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the 
currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.

To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional 
to the CET1 capital resources, the Group issues debt capital in non-
Sterling currencies, where possible. This is primarily achieved through 
the issuance of debt capital from Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC in 
US Dollar and Euro, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing 
capital in local currencies.

Pension risk 
The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes 
for past and current employees. The ability of the pension fund to 
meet the projected pension payments is maintained principally 
through investments. 

Pension risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension 
fund assets might decline; investment returns might reduce; or the 
estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase as a result of 
changes to the market process. The Group monitors the market risks 
arising from its defined benefit pension schemes and works with the 
Trustees to address shortfalls. In these circumstances, the Group could 
be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension 
fund. The Group's main defined benefit scheme was closed to new 
entrants in 2012.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
156 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Interest rate risk in the banking book 
management
Overview
Banking book operations generate non-traded market risk, primarily 
through interest rate risk arising from the sensitivity of net interest 
margins to changes in interest rates. To manage interest rate risk within 
its defined risk appetite, the principal banking businesses engage in 
internal derivative trades with Treasury. However, the businesses remain 
susceptible to market risk from six key sources:
■■ direct risk: the mismatch between the run-off of product balances 

and the associated interest rate hedge, given that the balance sheet 
is held static

■■ structural risk: the impact of the rate shock on the rolling hedge 
replenishment rate on non-maturity products, given that the balance 
sheet is held static

■■ prepayment risk: balance run-off may be faster or slower than 
expected, due to customer behaviour in response to general economic 
conditions or interest rates. This can lead to a mismatch between the 
actual balance of products and the hedges executed with Treasury 
based on initial expectations

■■ recruitment risk: the volume of new business may be lower or higher 
than expected, requiring the business to unwind pre-hedging 
or execute hedging transactions with Treasury at different rates 
than expected

■■ residual risk and margin compression: the business may retain a 
small element of interest rate risk to facilitate the day-to-day 
management of customer business. Additionally, in the current low 
interest rate environment, deposits on which the Group sets the 
interest rate are exposed to margin compression. This is because for 
any further fall in base rates the Group must absorb an increasing 
amount of the rate move in its margin

■■ lag risk: the risk of being unable to re-price products immediately 
after a change in interest rates due to both mandatory notification 
periods and operational constraints in large volume mailings. This is 
highly prevalent in managed rates savings product (e.g. Everyday 
Saver) where customers must be informed in writing of any planned 
reduction in their savings rates.

Non-traded market risk also arises from the Liquidity Buffer investment 
portfolio, which is managed to a defined risk appetite. Investments in 
the liquidity buffer are generally subject to available for sale accounting 
rules; changes in the value of these assets impact capital via the 
available for sale reserve.

Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury Market Risk team:
■■ provides risk management oversight and monitoring of all traded 

and non-traded market risk in Treasury, which specifically includes 
risk management of the liquidity buffer, funding activities, asset and 
liability management hedging, residual interest rate risk from the 
hedge accounting solution and foreign exchange translation hedging

■■ sets and monitors risk limits to ensure non-traded market risk taken 
in Treasury and the customer banking book adheres to agreed risk 
appetite. 

The Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book team: 
■■ assesses interest rate risk in the banking book, particularly as it relates 

to customer banking book and Treasury
■■ acts as review and challenge of the First Line's risk management 

practices and decisions including the hedging activity performed by 
Treasury on behalf of the business

■■ acts as review and challenge for the behavioural assumptions used 
in hedging and transfer pricing. 

Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 157

Risk review

Overview
The management of operational risk has two key objectives:
■■ minimise the impact of losses suffered, both in the normal course 

of business (small losses) and from extreme events (large losses) 
■■ improve the effective management of the Group and strengthen 

its brand and external reputation.

The Group is committed to the management and measurement of 
operational risk and was granted a waiver by the FSA (now the PRA) to 
operate an Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) for operational 
risk, which commenced in January 2008. The majority of the Group 
calculates regulatory capital requirements using AMA (94% of capital 
requirements), except for small parts of the organisation acquired since 
the original permission (6% of capital requirements) using the Basic 
Indicator Approach (BIA). The Group works to benchmark its internal 
operational risk management and measurement practices with peer 
banks and to drive the further development of advanced techniques.

The Group is committed to operating within a strong system of internal 
controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without 
exposing the Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational 
damages. The Group has an overarching framework that sets out the 
approach to internal governance. This guide establishes the mechanisms 
and processes by which the Board directs the organisation, through 
setting the tone and expectations from the top, delegating authority 
and monitoring compliance. 

Organisation and structure
Operational Risk comprises a number of specific risks defined as follow:
■■ external supplier: inadequate selection and ongoing management 

of external suppliers
■■ financial reporting: reporting misstatement or omission within 

external financial or regulatory reporting
■■ fraud: dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or cause 

a loss to others
■■ information: inadequate protection of the Group's information in 

accordance with its value and sensitivity
■■ payments process: failure in operation of payments processes
■■ people: inadequate people capabilities, and/or performance/reward 

structures, and/or inappropriate behaviours
■■ premises and security: unavailability of premises (to meet business 

demand) and/or safe working environments, and inadequate 
protection of physical assets, employees and customers against 
external threats

■■ taxation: failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could 
lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational 
damages

■■ technology (including cyber security): failure to develop and deploy 
secure, stable and reliable technology solutions which includes risk of 
loss or detriment to the Group's business and customers as a result of 
actions committed or facilitated through the use of networked 
information systems

■■ transaction operations: failure in the management of critical 
transaction processes.

In order to ensure complete coverage of the potential adverse impacts 
on the Group arising from operational risk, the operational risk taxonomy 
extends beyond the operational risks listed above to cover areas included 
within conduct risk. For more information on conduct risk please see 
page 160.

These risks may result in financial and/or non-financial impacts including 
legal/regulatory breaches or reputational damages.

Operational risk
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate 
or failed processes or systems, human factors 
or due to external events (for example fraud) 
where the root cause is not due to credit 
or market risks. 

Risk management
Operational risk management

Board Audit CommitteeBoard Risk Committee

Organisation and structure

Operational Risk Review Forum
■ reviews aggregate and business operational risk profile
■ reviews and monitors operational risk capital
■ oversees risk events/risk exposures
■ monitors emerging themes

Business Risk Committee

■ reviews and recommends to the Board the risk appetite of the firm, its business 
units and legal entities across the principal risks and review usage of the same

■ proposes Group level risk limits and thresholds to the Board, to optimally manage 
principal risks within appetite

■ monitors the Group risk profile, including emerging risks, against expected trends, 
and the utilisation of risk appetite. Agree any required actions

■ reviews limit usage and manage within tolerance agreed by the Board
■ reviews deep dives of specific risks as requested by senior management
■ reviews the impact of any material acquisitions and disposals on the risk profile
■ reviews remediation plans and actions taken, and agree any further action required

■ reviews and monitors control environment
■ reviews and challenges the effectiveness of the risk control environment
■ reviews control issues and escalate to BAC as appropriate
■ reviews a summary of lessons learnt and consider the impact on the risk profile and 

control environment

Group Controls Committee
■ oversees effectiveness of control environment
■ reviews and recommends control framework
■ oversees control remediation activities
■ oversees execution of operational risk management framework 

consistently across the firm
■ oversees risk and internal control matters including material issues

Group Risk Committee

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
158 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and 
the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and 
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and 
control environment is reviewed by business management through 
specific meetings which cover governance, risk and control. Businesses 
are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an 
event-driven basis. The reports include a profile of the material risks that 
may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness 
of key controls, operational risk events and a review of scenarios.

The Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, 
owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk 
Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of operational risk across 
the Group.

Operational risk management acts in a Second Line of Defence capacity, 
and is responsible for implementation of the framework and monitoring 
operational risk events and risk exposures. Key indicators (KIs) allow the 
Group to monitor its operational risk profile and alert management when 
risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite levels and drive 
timely decision making and actions. Through attendance at business 
GRC meetings, operational risk management provides specific risk input 
into the issues highlighted and the overall risk profile of the business. 
Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered 
through the Second Line of Defence review meetings. Depending on 
their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the BRC 
or the BAC.

Risk and control self-assessments
The Group identifies and assesses all material risks within each business 
and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks. Managers 
in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, 
evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place and assess whether 
the risks are being effectively managed. The businesses are then able to 
make decisions on what action, if any, is required to reduce the level of 
risk to the Group. These risk assessments are monitored on a regular 
basis to ensure that each business continually understands the risks 
it faces.

Risk management
Operational risk management

Risk review

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 159

Risk review

Overview
Barclays uses models to support a broad range of activities, including 
informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting 
risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital 
adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting reporting requirements.

Because models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, 
they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their output. 

Model errors can result in inappropriate business decisions being made, 
financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and/or inadequate 
capital reporting. 

Models may also be misused, for instance applied to products that they 
were not intended for, or not adjusted, where fundamental changes to 
their environment would justify re-evaluating their core assumptions. 

Errors and misuse are the primary sources of model risk.

Robust model risk management is crucial to ensuring that model risk is 
assessed and managed within a defined risk appetite. Strong model risk 
culture, appropriate technology environment, and adequate focus on 
understanding and resolving model limitations are crucial components. 

Organisation and structure
Barclays allocates substantial resources to identify and record models and 
their usage, document and monitor the performance of models, validate 
models and ensure that model limitations are adequately addressed.

Barclays has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that 
consists of two main units: the Independent Validation Unit (IVU), 
responsible for model validation and approval, and Model Governance 
and Controls (MGC), covering model risk governance, controls and 
reporting, including ownership of model risk policy.

The model risk policy prescribes Group-wide, end to end requirements 
for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, 
covering model documentation, development, implementation, 
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change 
and reporting processes. The Policy is supported by global Standards 
covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and 
materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, as well as vendor models 
and CCAR benchmarking.

Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk management. MRM 
reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and operates a global framework. 
Implementation of best practice standards is a central objective of the 
Group. Large new model development programmes are currently in 
motion to implement the model requirements of UK structural reform, 
CCAR, FRTB and IFRS9. 

Roles and responsibilities
The key model risk management activities include: 
■■ ensuring that models are correctly identified across all relevant areas 

of the firm, and recorded in the Group Models Database (GMD), the 
Group-wide model inventory. The heads of the relevant areas 
(typically, the Business Chief Risk Officers, Business Chief Executive 
Officers, the Treasurer, the Chief Financial Officer) annually attest 
to the completeness and accuracy of the model inventory. MGC 
undertakes regular conformance reviews on the model inventory. 
These activities are detailed in the Model Inventory, Workflow and 
Taxonomy Standard

■■ ensuring that every model has a model owner who is accountable for 
the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to submission 
to IVU for validation. The model owner works with the relevant 
technical teams (model developers, implementation, monitoring, data 
services, regulatory) to ensure that the model presented to IVU is and 
remains fit for purpose, in accordance with the Model Documentation 
Standard, and the Model Testing, Monitoring and Annual Review 
Standard

■■ ensuring that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, 
prior to being implemented and on a continual basis, in accordance 
with the Model Validation and Approval Standard. The level of review 
and challenge applied by IVU is tailored to the materiality and 
complexity of each model. Validation includes a review of the model 
assumptions, conceptual soundness, data, design, performance 
testing, compliance with external requirements if applicable, as well  
as any limitations, proposed remediation and overlays with supporting 
rationale. Material model changes are subject to prioritised validation 
and approval

■■ specific Standards cover model risk management activities relating  
to CCAR benchmarking and challenger modelling, model overlays, 
vendor models, and model complexity and materiality. 

Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences 
from financial assessments or decisions based 
on incorrect or misused model outputs and 
reports.

Risk management
Model risk management

Board Risk Committee

Organisation and structure

Group Risk Committee

Business Unit Risk Committees

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
160 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Overview
The Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goals 
of providing positive customer and client outcomes and protecting 
market integrity. This includes taking reasonable steps to ensure our 
culture and strategy are appropriately aligned to these goals; our 
products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet 
the needs of our customers and clients as well as promoting the fair and 
orderly operation of the markets in which we do business.

As part of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) refresh 
(page 146), Reputation risk has been designated as a Principal Risk 
and Financial Crime has been designated as a Risk Category under 
Conduct Risk. 

Organisation and structure
The Group Risk Committee (GRC) is the most senior Executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays' 
management of Conduct risk. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Principal Risk Framework (PRF) comprises a number 
of elements that allow the Group to manage and measure its conduct 
risk profile. 

The PRF is implemented vertically across the Group through an 
organisational structure that requires all businesses to implement and 
operate their own conduct risk frameworks that meet the requirements 
within the ERMF.

The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance 
with control requirements sits with the business where the risk arises. 
The Conduct Risk Accountable Executive for each business is 
responsible for ensuring the implementation of, and adherence 
to the PRF.

The Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for owning and 
maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Conduct Risk PRF and for 
overseeing Group-wide conduct risk management.

Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly 
and an event-driven basis. The quarterly reports detail the conduct risks 
inherent within the business strategy and include forward looking 
horizon scanning analysis as well as backward looking evidence-based 
indicators from both internal and external sources. For details please 
refer to the Risk Review, Conduct Risk Performance section of this report 
on page 227.

Risk management
Conduct risk management

Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, 
market integrity, competition or Barclays from 
the inappropriate supply of financial services, 
including instances of wilful or negligent 
misconduct. 

Board Reputation Committee

Organisation and structure

Group Risk Committee

Business Unit Risk Committees

Risk review

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 161

Risk review

Overview
A reduction of trust in Barclays' integrity and competence may reduce 
the attractiveness of Barclays to stakeholders and could lead to negative 
publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing 
and potential client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties 
in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.

With effect from 2017, Reputation risk has been redesignated as a 
Principal Risk within the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.

Organisation and structure
The Group Risk Committee (GRC) is the most senior Executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays' 
management of Reputation risk.

Roles and responsibilities
The Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for ensuring that a 
Reputation Principal Risk Framework and policies are developed and 
that they are subject to limits, monitored, reported on and escalated, 
as required.  

Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and can be difficult to quantify, 
requiring more subjective judgement than many other risks. The 
Reputation Principal Risk Framework sets out what is required to ensure 
Reputation risk is managed effectively and consistently across the bank. 

The primary responsibility for identifying and managing Reputation risk 
and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business and 
support functions where the risk arises. 

Each business is required to operate within established Reputation risk 
appetite and to submit quarterly reports to the Group Reputation 
Management team, highlighting their most significant current and 
potential Reputation risks and issues and how they are being managed. 
These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly 
Reputation risk reports which are prepared for the Group Risk 
Committee and the Board Reputation Committee. 

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment 
or event will reduce trust in the firm's integrity 
and competence by clients, counterparties, 
investors, regulators, employees or the public.

Risk management
Reputation risk management

Board Reputation Committee

Organisation and structure

Group Risk Committee

Business Unit Risk Committees

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
162 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Overview
With effect from 2017, Legal risk, which was previously a Key Risk under 
operational risk, has been re-designated as a Principal Risk within the 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework.

The Legal Risk Framework prescribes Group-wide requirements for the 
identification, measurement and management of Legal risk, covering 
assessment, risk appetite, key indicators and governance. The Group 
General Counsel (GCC) is the Legal Principal Risk Officer and owns the 
Legal Risk Framework and the associated legal policies.

Legal risk is defined by the five respective Legal Policies:
■■ Contractual arrangements – failure to have enforceable contracts 

in place or for contracts to be enforceable as intended
■■ Litigation management – failure to adequately manage litigation 

involving Barclays as either claimant or defendant
■■ Intellectual property (IP) – failure to protect the Group's IP assets 

or Barclays infringing IP rights of third parties
■■ Competition/antitrust law – failure to follow competition/antitrust 

law or failure to manage relationships with competition and antitrust 
authorities

■■ Use of law firms – failure to control instruction of an external law firm.

Group-wide and Business/Function specific Standards may be put in 
place to support the implementation of the legal policies. The standards 
are aligned to one of the policies and are implemented by Businesses/
Functions. 

Organisation and structure
The Group Risk Committee (GRC) is the most senior executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays' 
management of Legal risk. Escalation paths from this forum exist to 
the Board of Barclays PLC.

Roles and responsibilities
The Legal Risk Framework sets out what is required to ensure Legal risk 
is managed effectively and consistently across the bank.

The primary responsibility for managing Legal risk and adherence to 
the control requirements sits with the business where the risk arises. 

On behalf of the businesses, the aligned General Counsel or Legal Senior 
Management, will undertake Legal risk appetite assessments and 
provide advice and guidance on Legal risk management. The Legal risk 
assessment includes both quantitative and qualitative criteria including:
■■ Knowledge of Legal risk material control issues or weaknesses
■■ Emerging risks resulting from upcoming changes in the control 

environment, systems, or internal organisational structures
■■ Potential implications on Barclays of forthcoming changes in the 

external legal and regulatory environment and/or prevailing decisions 
from courts and enforcing authorities as they relate to defined legal 
risks. 

The Legal Principal Risk Officer is responsible for owning and 
maintaining an appropriate Legal Risk Framework and for overseeing 
Group-wide legal risk management. 

Legal risk 
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, 
damages or fines from the failure of the firm to 
meet its legal obligations including regulatory 
or contractual requirements.

Risk management
Legal risk

Board

Organisation and structure

Group Risk Committee

Business Unit Legal Risk Committee

Risk review

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 163

Risk review
Risk performance

Maintaining our risk profile at an acceptable 
and appropriate level is essential to ensure our 
continued performance. This section provides 
a review of the performance of the Group in 
2016 for each of the five Principal Risks in 
operation throughout the year, which are 
credit, market, funding, operational, and 
conduct risk. 

Please refer to the Risk Management section 
(pages 145 to 162) for an overview of the 
changes to Barclays' Principal Risk taxonomy 
in December 2016.

Page

Credit risk 164
Market risk 184
Funding risk – capital risk 200
Funding risk – liquidity risk 207
Operational risk 225
Conduct risk 227

 For a more comprehensive breakdown on our Risk review and 
Risk management contents please see pages 134 to 135.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
164 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Analysis of credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of the Group suffering 
financial loss should any of its customers, 
clients, or market counterparties fail to fulfil 
their contractual obligations to the Group. 

This section details the Group's credit risk 
profile and provides information on the Group's 
exposure to loans and advances to customer 
and banks, maximum exposures with collateral 
held and net impairment charges raised in the 
year. It provides information on balances that 
are categorised as credit risk loans, balances 
in forbearance, as well as exposure to and 
performance metrics for specific portfolios 
and asset types.

Key metrics
Credit impairment charges in 2016 were 35% higher than 2015:

+£608m Group 
Loan impairment increased reflecting a higher charge following the 
management review of the UK and US cards portfolio impairment 
modelling and a number of single name exposures.

+£555m Retail Core
Increased charges primarily due to a charge following the review 
of UK and US cards portfolio impairment modelling. Underlying 
performance across key portfolios has remained stable and broadly 
within expectations.

+£63m Wholesale Core
Increased charges reflecting a limited range of single name exposures.

-£10m Non-Core
Decreased charges reflecting lower charges in European businesses:

–  Net Loans and advances to customers and  
banks decreased by 2% in 2016

– The loan loss rate rose to 53bps.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 165

Summary of Contents Page
■■ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 166 Credit risk represents a significant risk to the Group and mainly arises 

from exposure to wholesale and retail loans and advances together with 
the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative contracts entered into 
with clients.

This section provides a macro view of the Group's credit exposures. 

■■ Analysis of the balance sheet 166
■■ The Group's maximum exposure and collateral and other 

credit enhancements held
167

■■ The Group's approach to manage and represent credit quality 169
 – Asset credit quality 169
 – Debt securities 169
 – Balance sheet credit quality 170

■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 171 The Group reviews and monitors risk concentrations in a variety of ways 
to ensure the continuation of a diversified portfolio operating within 
agreed appetites. 

This section outlines performance against key concentration risks at a 
macro Group level.

 – Geographic concentrations 171
 – Group exposures to specific countries 172
 – Industrial concentrations 173

■■ Loans and advances to customers and banks 175 In addition to Group-wide concentrations, Credit Risk monitors exposure 
performance across a range of specific portfolios where the risk profile is 
considered to be heightened. 

This section provides a more detailed analysis of these exposures and 
notes on how certain aspects of the risk profile are mitigated on an 
ongoing basis.

■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 176
 – Secured home loans 176
 – Credit cards, overdrafts, and unsecured loans 177
 – Exposure to UK Commercial Real Estate 179

■■ Analysis of problem loans 180 The Group monitors exposures to assets where there is a heightened 
likelihood of default and assets where an actual default has occurred.

This section outlines the exposure to assets that have been classified as 
impaired analysing the exposures between business units and by key 
product types.

The Group, from time to time, agrees to the suspension of certain 
aspects of customer/client credit agreements, generally during 
temporary periods of financial difficulties where the Group is confident 
that the customer/client will be able to remedy the suspension.

During this time, customer/client assets are separately monitored to 
ensure that remedies are completed.

This section outlines the Group's current exposure to assets with this 
treatment. 

 – Age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but 
not impaired

180

 – Analysis of loans and advances assessed as impaired 180
 – Potential credit risk loans    181
 – Impaired loans  182
 – Forbearance 182

■■ Impairment 186 The Group holds impairment provisions on the balance sheet as a result 
of the raising of a charge against profit for incurred losses in the lending 
book. An impairment allowance may either be identified or unidentified 
and individual or collective.

This section outlines the movements in allowance for impairment by 
asset class exposure, material management adjustments to model 
output, analysis of debt securities and derivatives. 

 – Impairment allowances 186
 – Management adjustments to models for impairment 186

■■ Analysis of debt securities 187
■■ Analysis of derivatives 187

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
166 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the Group and mainly arises 
from exposure to wholesale and retail loans and advances together with 
the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative contracts entered into 
with clients. A summary of performance may be found below.

This section provides an analysis of areas of particular interest or 
potentially of higher risk, including: i) balance sheet, including the 
maximum exposure, and collateral, and loans and advances; ii) areas 
of concentration; iii) exposure to and performance metrics for specific 
portfolios and assets types, including home loans, credit cards and UK 
commercial real estate; iv) exposure and performance of loans on 
concession programmes, including forbearance; v) problem loans, 
including credit risk loans (CRLs); and vi) impairment, including 
impairment stock and management adjustments to model outputs.

Please see risk management section on pages 149 to 150 for details 
of governance, policies and procedures. 

Summary of performance in the period
Credit impairment charges increased £0.6bn to £2.4bn including a 
£0.3bn charge in Q3 2016 following the management review of the UK 
and US cards portfolio impairment modelling. Overall, this resulted in 
an 11bps increase in the loan loss rate to 53bps.

Credit Risk Loans (CRLs) remained stable at £6.5bn (2015: £6.4bn) 
with the Group's CRL coverage ratio increasing to 71% (2015: 65%) 
mainly within retail portfolios.

Total loans and advances net of impairment decreased by £11.4bn to 
£449.5bn driven by a £31bn decrease due to the reclassification of 
BAGL balances to held for sale and £9bn from the exit of other assets in 
Non-Core. This was offset by lending growth of £20bn and a net £9bn 
increase in settlement and cash collateral balances.

Analysis of the Balance Sheet 
Group's maximum exposure and collateral and other credit 
enhancements held

Basis of preparation
The following tables present a reconciliation between the Group's 
maximum exposure and its net exposure to credit risk; reflecting the 
financial effects of collateral, credit enhancements and other actions 
taken to mitigate the Group's exposure. 

For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, maximum 
exposure to credit risk represents the balance sheet carrying value after 
allowance for impairment. For off-balance sheet guarantees, the 
maximum exposure is the maximum amount that the Group would have 
to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon. For loan commitments 
and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of 
the respective facilities, the maximum exposure is the full amount of the 
committed facilities.

This and subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets 
subject to credit risk. They exclude other financial assets not subject to 
credit risk, mainly equity securities held for trading, as available for sale 
or designated at fair value, and traded commodities. Assets designated 
at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment 
contracts have also not been included as the Group is not exposed to 
credit risk on these assets. Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would 
lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and not result in a loss to the 
Group. For off-balance sheet exposures certain contingent liabilities not 
subject to credit risk such as performance guarantees are excluded.

Both on and off balance sheet exposures for 2016 exclude BAGL 
balances now held for sale. Comparative tables for 2015 include BAGL 
balances unless stated otherwise.

The Group mitigates the credit risk to which it is exposed through 
netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer. Further detail on the 
Group's policies to each of these forms of credit enhancement is 
presented on page 36 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Overview
As at 31 December 2016, the Group's net exposure to credit risk after 
taking into account netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer 
increased 6% to £740.7bn, reflecting an increase in maximum exposure 
of 3% and an increase in level of mitigation held of 1%. Overall, the 
extent to which the Group holds mitigation against its total exposure 
remained stable at 47% (2015: 48%).

Of the remaining exposure left unmitigated, a significant portion relates 
to cash held at central banks, financial investment debt securities issued 
by governments, cash collateral and settlement balances, all of which are 
considered lower risk. Trading portfolio liability positions, which to a 
significant extent economically hedge trading portfolio assets but which 
are not held specifically for risk management purposes, are excluded 
from the analysis. The credit quality of counterparties to derivative, 
financial investments and wholesale loan assets are predominantly 
investment grade. Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is 
presented on pages 169 to 170.

Where collateral has been obtained in the event of default, the Group 
does not, as a rule, use such assets for its own operations and they are 
usually sold on a timely basis. The carrying value of assets held by the 
Group as at 31 December 2016, as a result of the enforcement of 
collateral, was £16m (2015: £69m).

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of the Group suffering 
financial loss if any of its customers, clients 
or market counterparties fails to fulfil their 
contractual obligations to the Group.

All disclosures in this section (pages 166 to 168) are unaudited unless otherwise 
stated. Disclosures for 2016 exclude BAGL balances which are now recognised 
as held for sale, comparative tables for 2015 include BAGL balances unless 
otherwise stated. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 167

Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

Maximum 
exposure

£m

Netting 
and set-off

£m

Collateral Risk 
transfer

£m

Net 
exposure

£m
Cash

£m
Non-cash

£m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 – – – – 102,353
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,467 – – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 38,789 – – – – 38,789
Traded loans 2,975 – – (270) – 2,705
Total trading portfolio assets 41,764 – – (270) – 41,494
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 10,519 – (17) (4,107) (432) 5,963
Debt securities 70 – – – – 70
Reverse repurchase agreements 63,162 – (688) (62,233) – 241
Other financial assets 262 – – – – 262
Total financial assets designated at fair value 74,013 – (705) (66,340) (432) 6,536
Derivative financial instruments 346,626 (273,602) (41,641) (8,282) (5,205) 17,896
Loans and advances to banks 43,251 – (4) (4,896) (22) 38,329
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 144,765 – (184) (143,912) – 669
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 57,808 – (235) (5,258) (95) 52,220
Corporate loans 190,211 (8,622) (320) (52,029) (5,087) 124,153
Total loans and advances to customers 392,784 (8,622) (739) (201,199) (5,182) 177,042
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 – (79) (13,242) – 133
Financial investments – debt securities 62,879 – – (533) (1,286) 61,060
Other assets 1,205 – – – – 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 1,079,796 (282,224) (43,168) (294,762) (12,127) 447,515

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 19,908 – (247) (1,403) (130) 18,128
Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 1,005 – (24) (18) (3) 960
Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 24 – – (24) – –
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 302,657 – (321) (26,524) (1,704) 274,108
Total off-balance sheet 323,594 – (592) (27,969) (1,837) 293,196

Total 1,403,390 (282,224) (43,760) (322,731) (13,964) 740,711

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
168 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements (audited)

As at 31 December 2015

Maximum
 exposure

£m

Netting
and set-off

£m

Collateral Risk
 transfer

£m

Net
exposure

£m
Cash

£m
Non-cash

£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 49,711 – – – – 49,711
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,011 – – – – 1,011
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 45,576 – – – – 45,576
Traded loans 2,474 – – (607) (1) 1,866
Total trading portfolio assets 48,050 – – (607) (1) 47,442
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 17,913 – (21) (5,850) (515) 11,527
Debt securities 1,383 – – – – 1,383
Reverse repurchase agreements 49,513 – (315) (49,027) – 171
Other financial assets 375 – – – – 375
Total financial assets designated at fair value 69,184 – (336) (54,877) (515) 13,456
Derivative financial instruments 327,709 (259,582) (34,918) (7,484) (5,529) 20,196
Loans and advances to banks 41,349 – (4) (4,072) (64) 37,209
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 155,863 – (221) (154,355) (634) 653
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 67,840 (12) (1,076) (14,512) (1,761) 50,479
Corporate loans 175,514 (8,399) (593) (45,788) (4,401) 116,333
Total loans and advances to customers 399,217 (8,411) (1,890) (214,655) (6,796) 167,465
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 28,187 – (166) (27,619) – 402
Financial investments – debt securities 89,278 – – (832) (811) 87,635
Other assets 1,410 – – – – 1,410
Total on-balance sheet 1,055,106 (267,993) (37,314) (310,146) (13,716) 425,937

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 20,576 – (604) (1,408) (104) 18,460
Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 845 – (33) (57) (3) 752
Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 93 – – (91) – 2
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 281,369 – (313) (24,156) (662) 256,238
Total off-balance sheet 302,883 – (950) (25,712) (769) 275,452

Total 1,357,989 (267,993) (38,264) (335,858) (14,485) 701,389

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 169

The Group's approach to management and representation of credit quality
Asset credit quality 
All loans and advances are categorised as either ‘neither past due nor impaired', ‘past due but not impaired', or ‘past due and impaired', which 
includes restructured loans. For the purposes of the disclosures in the balance sheet credit quality section below and the analysis of loans and 
advances and impairment section (page 186):
■■ loans neither past due nor impaired consist predominantly of wholesale and retail loans that are performing. These loans, although unimpaired 

may carry an unidentified impairment
■■ a loan is considered past due and classified as ‘Higher risk' when the borrower has failed to make a payment when due under the terms of 

the loan contract

■■ loans on forbearance programmes, as defined on page 182, are categorised as ‘Higher risk'
■■ the impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective 

impairment.

The Group uses the following internal measures to determine credit quality for loans that are performing:

Default Grade

 Wholesale lending 
Probability of 

default
Credit Quality 

Description

1-3 0.0-0.05% Strong
4-5 0.05-0.15%
6-8 0.15-0.30%
9-11 0.30-0.60%
12-14 0.60-2.15% Satisfactory
15-19 2.15-11.35%
20 - 21 11.35%+ Higher risk

For retail clients, a range of analytical tools is used to derive the probability of default of clients at inception and on an ongoing basis.

For loans that are performing, these descriptions can be summarised as follows:

Strong: there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.

Satisfactory: while there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may 
not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classified as satisfactory, 
regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a strong or high classification. At the lower end of this grade 
there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of deterioration, 
home loans with a high loan to value, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.

Higher risk: there is concern over the obligor's ability to make payments when due. However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency. 
There may also be doubts over the value of collateral or security provided. However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments 
when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.

Loans that are past due are monitored closely, with impairment allowances raised as appropriate and in line with the Group's impairment policies. 
These loans are all considered Higher risk for the purpose of this analysis of credit quality.

Debt securities
For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer. Most listed 
and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies. The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poor's, 
Fitch or Moody's. Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.

Balance sheet credit quality
The following tables present the credit quality of Group assets exposed to credit risk. 

Overview
As at 31 December 2016, the ratio of the Group's assets classified as strong remained broadly stable at 86% (2015: 85%) of total assets 
exposed to credit risk. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
170 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Further analysis of debt securities by issuer and issuer type and netting and collateral arrangements on derivative financial instruments is presented 
on pages 187 and 188 respectively.

Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

Strong 
(including 

investment 
grade)

£m

Satisfactory 
(BB+ to B)

£m

Higher risk 
(B- and 
below)

£m

Maximum
 exposure to

 credit risk
£m

Strong 
(including 

investment 
grade)

%

Satisfactory 
(BB+ to B)

%

Higher risk 
(B- and 
below)

%

Maximum
 exposure to

 credit risk
%

Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 – – 102,353 100 – – 100
Items in the course of collection from 
other banks 1,328 130 9 1,467 91 9 – 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 37,037 1,344 408 38,789 96 3 1 100
Traded loans 594 1,977 404 2,975 20 66 14 100
Total trading portfolio assets 37,631 3,321 812 41,764 90 8 2 100
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 9,692 533 294 10,519 92 5 3 100
Debt securities 59 11 – 70 84 16 – 100
Reverse repurchase agreements 53,151 9,999 12 63,162 84 16 – 100
Other financial assets 244 18 – 262 93 7 – 100
Total financial assets designated at fair value 63,146 10,561 306 74,013 85 14 1 100
Derivative financial instruments 330,737 14,963 926 346,626 95 5 – 100
Loans and advances to banks 39,159 3,830 262 43,251 91 9 – 100
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 136,922 2,589 5,254 144,765 95 1 4 100
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 5,343 50,685 1,780 57,808 9 88 3 100
Corporate loans 140,414 37,170 12,627 190,211 74 19 7 100
Total loans and advances to customers 282,679 90,444 19,661 392,784 72 23 5 100
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 9,364 4,090 – 13,454 70 30 – 100
Financial investments – debt securities 62,842 30 7 62,879 100 – – 100
Other assets 1,085 117 3 1,205 90 10 – 100
Total assets 930,324 127,486 21,986 1,079,796 86 12 2 100

Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2015

Strong 
(including 

investment 
grade)

£m

Satisfactory 
(BB+ to B)

£m

Higher risk   
(B- and
below)

£m

Maximum
 exposure to

 credit risk
£m

Strong 
(including 

investment 
grade)

%

Satisfactory 
(BB+ to B)

%

Higher risk 
(B- and 
below)

%

Maximum
 exposure to

 credit risk
%

Cash and balances at central banks 49,711 – – 49,711 100 – – 100
Items in the course of collection from 
other banks 922 62 27 1,011 91 6 3 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 43,118 2,217 241 45,576 95 5 – 100
Traded loans 329 1,880 265 2,474 13 76 11 100
Total trading portfolio assets 43,447 4,097 506 48,050 90 9 1 100
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 16,751 790 372 17,913 94 4 2 100
Debt securities 1,378 3 2 1,383 100 – – 100
Reverse repurchase agreements 41,145 8,352 16 49,513 83 17 – 100
Other financial assets 313 62 – 375 83 17 – 100
Total financial assets designated at fair value 59,587 9,207 390 69,184 86 13 1 100
Derivative financial instruments 313,114 13,270 1,325 327,709 96 4 – 100
Loans and advances to banks 39,059 1,163 1,127 41,349 94 3 3 100
Loans and advances to customers:
Home loans 139,252 9,704 6,907 155,863 89 6 5 100
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 12,347 51,294 4,199 67,840 18 76 6 100
Corporate loans 125,743 39,600 10,171 175,514 72 22 6 100
Total loans and advances to customers 277,342 100,598 21,277 399,217 70 25 5 100
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 23,040 5,147 – 28,187 82 18 – 100
Financial investments – debt securities 88,536 632 110 89,278 99 1 – 100
Other assets 1,142 233 35 1,410 81 17 2 100
Total assets 895,900 134,409 24,797 1,055,106 85 13 2 100

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 171

Analysis of the concentration of credit risk
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are located in a geographical region or are engaged in similar activities and 
have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic 
or other conditions. The Group implements limits on concentrations in order to mitigate the risk. The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented 
below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged. Further detail on the Group's policies 
with regard to managing concentration risk is presented on page 136 of Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Geographic concentrations
As at 31 December 2016, the geographic concentration of the Group's assets remained broadly consistent with 2015. Exposure is concentrated 
in the UK 41% (2015: 40%), in the Americas 33% (2015: 31%) and Europe 21% (2015: 20%). The decrease of £58bn in Africa and the Middle East 
is due to the reclassification of BAGL balances now held for sale. 

Information on exposures to Eurozone countries is presented on page 172.

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2016

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and 
Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 30,485 40,439 24,859 77 6,493 102,353
Items in the course of collection from other banks 969 498 – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets 8,981 9,171 19,848 435 3,329 41,764
Financial assets designated at fair value 25,821 10,244 33,181 733 4,034 74,013
Derivative financial instruments 108,559 107,337 105,129 1,493 24,108 346,626
Loans and advances to banks 7,458 12,674 16,894 1,778 4,447 43,251
Loans and advances to customers 253,752 47,050 81,045 3,089 7,848 392,784
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 218 309 11,439 92 1,396 13,454
Financial Investments – debt securities 18,126 27,763 12,030 251 4,709 62,879
Other assets 987 – 137 10 71 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 455,356 255,485 304,562 7,958 56,435 1,079,796

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 8,268 3,275 6,910 702 753 19,908
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 915 9 – 40 41 1,005
Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 14 1 5 2 2 24
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 106,413 35,475 156,072 1,692 3,005 302,657
Total off-balance sheet 115,610 38,760 162,987 2,436 3,801 323,594
Total 570,966 294,245 467,549 10,394 60,236 1,403,390

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2015

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and 
Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 14,061 19,094 13,288 2,055 1,213 49,711
Items in the course of collection from other banks 543 72 – 396 – 1,011
Trading portfolio assets 7,150 10,012 23,641 2,111 5,136 48,050
Financial assets designated at fair value 22,991 5,562 35,910 3,039 1,682 69,184
Derivative financial instruments 99,658 103,498 101,592 3,054 19,907 327,709
Loans and advances to banks 10,733 9,918 13,078 2,900 4,720 41,349
Loans and advances to customers 239,086 47,372 69,803 33,461 9,495 399,217
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 5,905 4,361 15,684 915 1,322 28,187
Financial investments – debt securities 20,509 40,344 20,520 3,999 3,906 89,278
Other assets 868 4 131 314 93 1,410
Total on-balance sheet 421,504 240,237 293,647 52,244 47,474 1,055,106

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 9,543 3,020 5,047 2,505 461 20,576
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 594 58 – 193 – 845
Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 9 5 65 – 14 93
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 104,797 34,370 125,456 13,600 3,146 281,369
Total off-balance sheet 114,943 37,453 130,568 16,298 3,621 302,883
Total 536,447 277,690 424,215 68,542 51,095 1,357,989

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
172 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Exposures to Eurozone countries
The following table shows Barclays' most significant current exposure (above £4bn net on-balance sheet exposure) to Eurozone countries.

Basis of preparation
The Group presents the direct balance sheet exposure to credit and market risk by country, with the totals reflecting allowance for impairment, 
netting and cash collateral held where appropriate. 

The net on-balance sheet exposure includes: 
■■ Loans and advances held at amortised cost, net of impairment. Settlement balances and cash collateral are excluded from this analysis
■■ Trading assets and liabilities are presented by issuer type on a net basis. Where liability positions exceed asset positions by issuer type, exposures 

are presented as nil
■■ Derivative assets and liabilities are presented by counterparty type on a net basis. Cash collateral held is then added to give a net credit exposure. 

Where liability positions and collateral held exceed asset positions by counterparty type, exposures are presented as nil
■■ Financial investments – debt securities principally relating to investments in government bonds and other debt securities
■■ Other assets held for sale. Businesses held for sale with European exposures are included within the Financial institutions category. 

The analysis excludes financial assets not subject to credit risk:
■■ Equity securities held for trading, as financial investments or designated at fair value, and traded commodities
■■ Reverse repurchase agreements measured at amortised cost and at fair value which are materially fully collateralised. 

Gross exposure reflects total exposures before the effects of economic hedging by way of trading portfolio liabilities, derivative liabilities and cash 
collateral, but after taking into account impairment allowances and IFRS netting.

The Italian home loans of £9.7bn (2015: £9.5bn) are secured on residential property with average balance weighted marked to market LTVs of 
61.8% (2015: 60.6%) and CRL coverage of 36% (2015: 31%). 90 days arrear and gross charge-off rates remained stable at 1.2% (2015: 1.2%) 
and 0.8% (2015: 0.7%) respectively.

Net exposure by country and counterparty

Sovereign
£m

Financial 
institutions

£m
Corporate

£m

 
Home loans

£m

Other retail 
lending

£m

Net 
on-balance 

sheet 
exposure

£m

Gross 
on-balance 

sheet 
exposure

£m

Contingent 
liabilities and 

commitments
£m

As at 31 December 2016
Italy 2,668 299 763 9,741 331 13,802 18,580 2,835
Germany 5,250 3,399 1,379 8 2,967 13,003 47,964 13,362
France 3,708 6,886 1,160 736 139 12,629 41,056 6,565
Ireland 6 2,230 1,855 30 9 4,130 6,474 2,735
Total 11,632 12,814 5,157 10,515 3,446 43,564 114,074 25,497

As at 31 December 2015
Italy 1,708 2,283 1,039 9,505 675 15,210 20,586 2,701
Germany 7,494 3,621 1,602 9 2,313 15,039 50,930 8,029
France 7,426 4,967 805 1,472 152 14,822 43,427 7,436
Ireland 9 2,824 1,282 37 51 4,203 7,454 2,673
Total 16,637 13,695 4,728 11,023 3,191 49,274 122,397 20,839

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 173

Industry concentrations
The concentration of the Group's assets by industry remained broadly consistent year on year. As at 31 December 2016, total assets concentrated 
towards banks and other financial institutions was 43% (2015: 42%), predominantly within derivative financial instruments. The proportion of the 
overall balance concentrated towards governments and central banks remained stable at 14% (2015: 12%) and home loans at 11% (2015: 12%).

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 2016
Banks

£m

Other
 financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Const-
ruction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and

 central 
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail 
distribu-
tion and 

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
unsecured
loans and 

other 
personal 

lending
£m

Other
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at 
central banks – – – – 102,353 – – – – – – 102,353
Items in the course of 
collection from other 
banks 1,467 – – – – – – – – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets 2,231 7,998 1,625 565 21,047 3,733 324 2,972 257 – 1,012 41,764
Financial assets 
designated at fair value 14,714 49,783 3 5,699 856 5 33 2,811 33 2 74 74,013
Derivative financial 
instruments 182,664 139,066 2,913 3,488 6,547 4,585 810 3,392 – – 3,161 346,626
Loans and advances to 
banks 38,932 – – – 4,319 – – – – – – 43,251
Loans and advances to 
customers – 91,812 12,337 24,200 12,028 7,384 12,967 21,838 144,765 56,730 8,723 392,784
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 2,596 10,568 – 38 252 – – – – – – 13,454
Financial investments – 
debt securities 12,842 4,877 – – 44,263 – 43 807 – – 47 62,879
Other assets 975 205 – – 25 – – – – – – 1,205
Total on-balance sheet 256,421 304,309 16,878 33,990 191,690 15,707 14,177 31,820 145,055 56,732 13,017 1,079,796
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 1,484 4,232 3,387 707 8 2,649 1,032 4,847 40 531 991 19,908
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 433 – 377 – – – 157 38 – – – 1,005
Forward starting reverse 
repurchase agreements 5 19 – – – – – – – – – 24
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 1,016 29,310 38,829 11,876 400 29,699 14,741 26,359 9,610 126,708 14,109 302,657
Total off-balance sheet 2,938 33,561 42,593 12,583 408 32,348 15,930 31,244 9,650 127,239 15,100 323,594
Total 259,359 337,870 59,471 46,573 192,098 48,055 30,107 63,064 154,705 183,971 28,117  1,403,390

Other risks being monitored include exposures to the oil and gas sector. Net on-balance sheet exposure to the oil and gas sector was £4.2bn (2015: 
£4.4bn), with contingent liabilities and commitments to this sector of £16.0bn (2015: £13.8bn). Impairment charges were £94m (2015: £106m). The 
ratio of the Group's net total exposures classified as strong or satisfactory was 93% (2015: 97%) of the total net exposure to credit risk to this sector. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
174 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 2015
Banks

£m

Other
 financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Const-
ruction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and 

central 
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail 
distribu-
tion and 

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
unsecured
loans and 

other 
personal 

lending
£m

Other
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at 
central banks – – – – 49,711 – – – – – – 49,711
Items in the course of 
collection from other 
banks 1,011 – – – – – – – – – – 1,011
Trading portfolio assets 1,897 11,826 970 538 25,797 2,554 315 2,727 550 – 876 48,050
Financial assets 
designated at fair value 14,015 35,109 104 8,642 7,380 33 191 3,402 229 – 79 69,184
Derivative financial 
instruments 185,782 114,727 2,701 2,940 6,113 4,538 1,063 5,346 – – 4,499 327,709
Loans and advances to 
banks 36,829 – – – 4,520 – – – – – – 41,349
Loans and advances to 
customers – 80,729 12,297 23,519 5,940 7,743 13,830 25,728 155,863 60,162 13,406 399,217
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 8,676 18,022 – 1,011 305 – 35 138 – – – 28,187
Financial investments – 
debt securities 9,745 6,114 68 43 67,645 182 107 5,134 – – 240 89,278
Other assets 312 1,077 – – 20 – – – – – 1 1,410
Total on-balance sheet 258,267 267,604 16,140 36,693 167,431 15,050 15,541 42,475 156,642 60,162 19,101 1,055,106
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 1,152 4,698 3,142 958 9 3,073 1,301 4,645 100 548 950 20,576
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 378 17 142 1 – 3 129 50 – 123 2 845
Forward starting reverse 
repurchase agreements 78 15 – – – – – – – – – 93
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 946 31,152 35,865 11,337 871 26,217 15,054 23,180 11,708 111,988 13,051 281,369
Total off-balance sheet 2,554 35,882 39,149 12,296 880 29,293 16,484 27,875 11,808 112,659 14,003 302,883
Total 260,821 303,486 55,289 48,989 168,311 44,343 32,025 70,350 168,450 172,821 33,104  1,357,989

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 175

As the principal source of credit risk to the Group, loans and advances to customers and banks is analysed in detail below:

Analysis of loans and advances and impairment to customers and banks

As at 31 December 2016

Gross
L&A
£m

Impairment
allowance

£m

L&A net of
impairment

£m

Credit risk
loans

£m

CRLs % of 
gross L&A

%

Loan 
impairment

chargesa
£m

Loan loss
rates

bps 

Barclays UK 155,729 1,519 154,210 2,044 1.3 866 56
Barclays International 33,485 1,492 31,993 1,249 3.7 1,085 324
Barclays Core 189,214 3,011 186,203 3,293 1.7 1,951 103
Barclays Non-Core 10,319 385 9,934 838 8.1 102 99
Total Group retail 199,533 3,396 196,137 4,131 2.1 2,053 103
Barclays UK 15,204 282 14,922 591 3.9 30 20
Barclays International 180,102 748 179,354 1,470 0.8 258 14
Head Office 4,410 – 4,410 – – – –
Barclays Core 199,716 1,030 198,686 2,061 1.0 288 14
Barclays Non-Core 41,406 194 41,212 299 0.7 11 3
Total Group wholesale 241,122 1,224 239,898 2,360 1.0 299 12
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 440,655 4,620 436,035 6,491 1.5 2,352 53
Traded loans 2,975 n/a 2,975 n/a
Loans and advances designated at fair value 10,519 n/a 10,519 n/a
Loans and advances held at fair value 13,494 n/a 13,494 n/a
Total loans and advances 454,149 4,620 449,529 6,491

As at 31 December 2015
Barclays UK 153,539 1,556 151,983 2,238 1.5 682 44
Barclays International 26,041 896 25,145 863 3.3 714 274
Barclays Core 179,580 2,452 177,128 3,101 1.7 1,396 78
Barclays Non-Core 12,588 465 12,123 936 7.4 139 110
Total Group retail 192,168 2,917 189,251 4,037 2.1 1,535 80
Barclays UK 16,400 312 16,088 636 3.9 24 15
Barclays International 159,776 617 159,159 1,331 0.8 201 13
Head Office 5,767 – 5,767 – – – –
Barclays Core 181,943 929 181,014 1,967 1.1 225 12
Barclays Non-Core 39,979 336 39,643 441 1.1 (16) (4)
Total Group wholesale 221,922 1,265 220,657 2,408 1.1 209 9
Total loans and advances at amortised costb 414,090 4,182 409,908 6,445 1.6 1,744 42
BAGL loans and advances at amortised cost 31,397 739 30,658 1,372
Traded loans 2,474 n/a 2,474 n/a
Loans and advances designated at fair value 17,913 n/a 17,913 n/a
Loans and advances held at fair value 20,387 n/a 20,387 n/a
Total loans and advances 465,874 4,921 460,953 7,817

Total loans and advances decreased by £11.4bn to £449.5bn driven by a £31bn decrease due to the reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale 
and £9bn from the exit of other assets in Non-Core. This was offset by lending of £20bn driven by volume growth and foreign currency movements 
due to the appreciation of average US Dollar and Euro against Sterling. There was also a net £9bn increase in settlement and cash collateral balances.

Credit risk loans (CRLs) and the ratio of CRLs to gross loans and advances excluding BAGL balances now held for sale remained stable at £6.5bn 
(2015: £6.4bn) and 1.5% (2015: 1.6%) respectively.

Loan impairment charges increased £0.6bn to £2.4bn primarily due to increased charges following the management review of impairment modelling 
for UK and US cards portfolios and the impairment of a number of single name exposures. Overall, this resulted in an 11bps increase in the loan loss 
rate to 53bps.

Notes
a Excluding impairment charges on available for sale investments and reverse repurchase agreements.
b Excluding BAGL balances now held for sale.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
176 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types
This section provides an analysis of principal portfolios and businesses in the retail and wholesale segments. In particular, home loans, credit cards, 
overdrafts and unsecured loans are covered for retail segments. In addition, this section details exposures to UK commercial real estate.

Secured home loans
The UK home loans portfolio comprises first lien home loans and accounts for 98%a (2015: 98%) of the Group's Core home loan balances and 91% 
(2015: 90%) of the Group's total home loan balances. Italy home loans accounts for 100% (2015: 91%) of the Group's Non-Core home loan balances 
and 7% (2015: 7%) of the Group's total home loan balances.

Home loans principal portfoliosb
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2016 2015
Gross loans and advances (£m) 129,136 127,750
>90 day arrears, excluding recovery book (%) 0.2 0.2
Non-performing proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.6 0.7
Annualised gross charge-off rates (%) 0.3 0.3
Recovery book proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.4 0.4
Recovery book impairment coverage ratio (%) 9.1 10.1

Barclays UK: Portfolio performance remained steady reflecting the continuing low base rate environment, house price appreciation and steady 
economic conditions. Non-performing proportion of outstanding balances and recovery book impairment coverage reduced due to a reduction 
in repossession stock.

Within the UK home loans portfolio:

■■ owner-occupied interest-only home loans comprised 31% (2015: 32%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV on these loans 
reduced to 41.7% (2015: 44.7%) as house prices have improved across core regions, and >90 day arrears excluding recovery book remained 
steady at 0.2% (2015: 0.2%)

■■ buy-to-let home loans comprised 9% (2015: 9%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV reduced to 52.6% (2015: 54.6%), 
and >90 day arrears excluding recovery book reduced to 0.1% (2015: 0.2%).

Home loans principal portfolios – distribution of balances by LTVc

Distribution of 
balances

Impairment coverage 
ratio

Non-performing 
proportion of 

outstanding balances

Non-performing 
balances impairment 

coverage ratio

Recovery book 
proportion of 

outstanding balances

Recovery book 
impairment coverage 

ratio

As at 31 December
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%

Barclays UK
<=75% 91.8 92.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 4.2 4.7 0.4 0.4 5.9 6.8
>75% and <=80% 3.5 3.4 0.2 0.2 0.6 1.0 17.1 13.5 0.4 0.8 22.1 15.7
>80% and <=85% 2.1 2.1 0.2 0.3 0.8 1.0 20.4 16.7 0.6 0.7 25.0 21.4
>85% and <=90% 1.3 1.4 0.3 0.3 0.7 1.3 23.0 15.7 0.6 1.0 25.4 17.8
>90% and <=95% 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.6 1.1 1.8 28.3 25.7 0.8 1.5 33.7 28.2
>95% and <=100% 0.3 0.2 0.7 1.3 1.9 4.0 23.4 25.4 1.5 3.5 27.0 27.9
>100% 0.2 0.2 3.1 3.4 5.7 7.0 38.6 35.6 5.0 5.6 40.9 41.2

Home loans principal portfolios – Average LTV
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2016 2015
Portfolio marked to market LTV (%):
Balance weighted 47.7 49.2
Valuation weighted 35.6 37.3
Performing balances (%): 
Balance weighted 47.3 48.8
Valuation weighted 35.5 37.3
Non-performing balances (%):
Balance weighted 52.5 56.5
Valuation weighted 41.7 45.1
For >100% LTVs: 
Balances (£m) 239 310
Marked to market collateral (£m) 210 260
Average LTV: balance weighted (%) 118.4 123.0
Average LTV: valuation weighted (%) 113.1 118.5
% of balances in recovery book 5.0 5.6

Notes
a Remaining balance includes Wealth portfolio.
b Gross loans and advances include loans and advances to customers and banks. Risk metrics based on exposures to customers only.
c Portfolio marked to market based on the most updated valuation including recovery book balances. Updated valuations reflect the application of the latest house price index available 

in the country as at 31 December 2016.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 177

Balance weighted LTV in the UK reduced to 47.7% (2015: 49.2%) due to an increase in average house prices across core regions.  

The house price appreciation resulted in a 23% reduction in home loans that have LTV >100% to £239m (2015: £310m).

Home loans principal portfolios – new lending
Barclays UK

As at 31 December 2016 2015
New home loan bookings (£m) 19,885 18,812
New home loans proportion above 85% LTV (%) 8.6 8.2
Average LTV on new home loans: balance weighted (%) 63.4 63.9
Average LTV on new home loans: valuation weighted (%) 54.4 55.0

Barclays UK: New lending in 2016 increased by 6%, reflecting a steady risk profile against the backdrop of heightened market activity. Average 
balance weighted LTV on new lending remained broadly stable at 63.4% (2015: 63.9%).

Credit cards and unsecured loans
The principal portfolios listed below accounted for 94% (2015: 92%) of the Group's total credit cards and unsecured loans.

Credit cards and unsecured loans principal portfolios

Gross loans
 and 

advancesa
£m

30 day 
arrears,

 excluding
 recovery 

book
%

90 day 
arrears,

 excluding 
recovery 

book
%

Annualised 
gross 

charge-off 
rates

%

Recovery
 book

proportion of
outstanding

balances
%

Recovery 
book

 impairment
 coverage 

ratio
%

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK
UK cardsb 17,833 1.9 0.9 5.5 3.0 83.8
UK personal loans 6,076 2.1 0.9 3.1 4.7 77.2
Barclays International
US cardsb 23,915 2.6 1.3 4.5 2.4 83.6
Barclays Partner Finance 4,041 1.5 0.6 2.5 2.6 81.5
Germany cards 1,812 2.6 1.0 3.7 2.7 79.0
As at 31 December 2015
Barclays UK
UK cardsb 18,502 2.3 1.2 5.2 3.6 82.6
UK personal loans 5,476 1.9 0.8 3.0 7.5 73.9
Barclays International
US cardsb 16,699 2.2 1.1 3.9 2.0 84.8
Barclays Partner Financec 3,986 1.5 0.6 2.4 2.5 82.2
Germany cards 1,419 2.3 1.0 3.8 2.7 81.2

UK cards: Gross loans and advances decreased 4% to £17.8bn primarily due to reduced loans and advances to banks. Annualised gross charge-off 
rates increased due to accelerated asset sales in the latter half of the year and accelerated charge-off of informal arrangements stock. The recovery 
book impairment coverage ratio increased, reflecting the impact of increased flow into charge-off.

UK personal loans: 30 day arrears increased to 2.1% (2015: 1.9%) and 90 day arrears increased to 0.9% (2015: 0.8%) driven by portfolio growth 
and an increased level of operational delinquency from new customer acquisitions. The recovery book proportion of outstanding balances reduced 
to 4.7% (2015: 7.5%) due to an asset sale that also resulted in an increase in the recovery book impairment coverage ratio to 77.2% (2015: 73.9%).

US cards: Gross loans and advances increased 43% to £23.9bn due to portfolio growth, new acquisitions and appreciation of USD against GBP. 
Increased arrears and charge-off rates were driven by a change in portfolio mix, volume growth and the appreciation of average USD against GBP.

Barclays Partner Finance: Portfolio arrears and charge-off rates remained broadly steady during 2016. 

Germany cards: Loans and advances were 28% higher, mainly due to a combination of the appreciation of EUR against GBP and portfolio growth. 
90 day arrears and charge off rates remained stable, while the recovery book coverage ratio reduced slightly reflecting favourable recovery 
expectations.

Notes
a Gross loans and advances include loans and advances to customers and banks. Risk metrics based on exposures to customers.
b For UK and US cards, outstanding recovery book balances for acquired portfolios recognised at fair value (which have no related impairment allowance) have been excluded 

from the recovery book impairment coverage ratio. Losses have been recognised where related to additional spend from acquired accounts in the period post acquisition.
c 2015 figures for recovery book coverage ratio restated from 85.2% to 82.2% to reflect more granular allocation of management adjustments to the recovery book.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
178 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost

Analysis of wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost

Gross
L&A
£m

Impairment 
allowance

£m

L&A net of 
impairment

£m

Credit risk 
loans

£m

CRLs % of 
gross L&A

%

Loan 
impairment 

charges
£m

Loan loss 
rates

bps

As at 31 December 2016
Banks 35,979 – 35,979 – – – –
Other financial institutions 91,673 14 91,659 89 0.1 6 1
Manufacturing 12,373 130 12,243 226 1.8 37 30
Construction 3,418 40 3,378 58 1.7 5 15
Property 20,541 137 20,404 464 2.3 27 13
Government and central bank 15,847 – 15,847 – – – –
Energy and water 7,569 181 7,388 348 4.6 102 135
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,995 169 12,826 258 2.0 38 29
Business and other services 21,210 284 20,926 331 1.6 54 25
Home loansa 5,497 48 5,449 190 3.5 9 16
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lendinga 5,329 129 5,200 207 3.9 6 11
Other 8,691 92 8,599 189 2.2 15 17
Total wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 241,122 1,224 239,898 2,360 1.0 299 12

As at 31 December 2015
Banks 32,824 – 32,824 – – – –
Other financial institutions 78,766 28 78,738 63 0.1 4 1
Manufacturing 10,107 114 9,993 183 1.8 17 17
Construction 3,358 44 3,314 54 1.6 4 12
Property 18,444 217 18,227 713 3.9 34 18
Government and central bank 9,686 – 9,686 – – – –
Energy and water 7,370 120 7,250 296 4.0 101 137
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,542 195 12,347 287 2.3 7 6
Business and other services 23,403 261 23,142 341 1.5 23 10
Home loansa 5,769 26 5,743 159 2.8 – –
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lendinga 8,894 107 8,787 166 1.9 2 2
Other 10,759 153 10,606 146 1.4 17 16
Total wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 221,922 1,265 220,657 2,408 1.1 209 9
BAGL loans and advances at amortised cost 13,985 200 13,785 513 3.7
Total wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost 235,907 1,465 234,442 2,921 1.2

Excluding BAGL balances:
■■ Wholesale loans and advances increased by £19bn to £241bn (2015: £222bn) due to increased lending of £11bn driven by volume growth and 

foreign currency movements due to the appreciation of average US Dollar and Euro against Sterling, £8bn due to the reclassification of ESHLA 
loans now recognised at amortised cost and a net £9bn increase in settlement and cash collateral balances, offset by £9bn from the exit of 
assets in Non-Core. 

■■ CRLs remained stable at £2.4bn (2015: £2.4bn).
■■ Loan impairment charges increased to £299m (2015: £209m) from a number of single name exposures. The loan loss rates increased to 12bps 

(2015: 9bps).

Note
a Included in the above analysis are Wealth and Private Banking exposures measured on an individual customer exposure basis. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 179

Exposure to UK commercial real estate (CRE)
The UK CRE portfolio includes property investment, development, trading and house builders but excludes social housing and contractors. 

UK CRE summarya

As at 31 December 2016 2015
UK CRE loans and advances (£m) 11,227 10,690
Past due balances (£m) 83 152
Balances past due as % of UK CRE balances (%) 0.7 1.4
Impairment allowances (£m) 58 79
Past due coverage ratio (%) 69.9 52.0
Total collateral (£m) 23,225 21,858
  
Twelve months ended 31 December
Impairment (credit)/charge (£m) (2) 3

Maturity analysis of exposure to UK CRE
Contractual maturity of UK CRE loans and advances at amortised cost

As at 31 December

Past due 
balances

£m

Not more 
than 

six months
£m

Over 
six months

 but not 
more than 

one year
£m

Over 
one year
 but not 

more than 
two years

£m

Over 
two years 

but not 
more than 
five years

£m

Over 
five years 

but not 
more than 

ten years
£m

Over 
ten years

£m

Total loans
and 

advances
£m

2016 83 774 668 1,200 6,318 700 1,484 11,227

2015 152 784 744 929 5,678 852 1,551 10,690

Total exposure to UK commercial real estate following the 2015 restatement rose moderately from £10.7bn to £11.2bn primarily in medium-term 
deals. Past due balances fell to £83m from £152m due to favourable recovery activity and a selective approach to new deals in this sector.

UK CRE LTV analysis

Balances

Balances as 
proportion 

of total

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Group
<=75% 7,884 7,208 70 68
>75% and <=100% 102 244 1 2
>100% and <=125% 15 109 – 1
>125% 60 18 1 –
Unassessed balancesb 2,286 2,370 20 22
Unsecured balancesc 880 741 8 7
Total 11,227 10,690 100 100

Notes
a Based on the most recent valuation assessment, 2015 year end numbers have been restated following closer alignment of industry classifications between corporate banking and 

business lending. 
b Corporate Banking balances under £1m.
c Unsecured balances primarily relate to working capital facilities agreed to CRE companies.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
180 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Analysis of problem loans
Loans that are past due or assessed as impaired within this section are reflected in the balance sheet credit quality tables on page 170 
as being Higher Risk.

Age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not impaired (audited)
The following table presents an age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not impaired. Loans that are past due but not impaired 
consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due but individually assessed as not being impaired. These loans although individually 
assessed as unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment provision.

Loans and advances past due but not impaired (audited)
Past due 

up to
1 month

£m

Past due 
1-2 months

£m

Past due
2-3 months

£m

Past due 
3-6 months

£m

Past due
6 months
and over

£m
Total

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Loans and advances designated at fair value 29 8 18 – 16 71
Home loans 1 – – 33 31 65
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 2 – 2 11 77 92
Corporate loans 6,962 1,235 149 178 354 8,878
Total 6,994 1,243 169 222 478 9,106

As at 31 December 2015
Loans and advances designated at fair value 70 14 – – 209 293
Home loans 22 8 6 24 80 140
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 288 14 15 93 120 530
Corporate loans 5,862 897 207 226 280 7,472
Total 6,242 933 228 343 689 8,435

Corporate loans past due up to 1 month increased £1.1bn to £7.0bn primarily driven by the appreciation of average USD against GBP.

Analysis of loans and advances assessed as impaired (audited)
The following table presents an analysis of loans and advances into those collectively or individually assessed as impaired. The table includes an age 
analysis for loans and advances collectively assessed as impaired.

Loans that are collectively assessed as impaired consist predominantly of retail loans that are one day or more past due for which a collective 
allowance is raised. Wholesale loans that are past due, individually assessed as unimpaired, but which carry an unidentified impairment provision, 
are excluded from this category.

Loans that are individually assessed as impaired consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due and for which an individual allowance 
has been raised.

Home loans, unsecured loans and credit card receivables that are subject to forbearance in the retail portfolios are included within the collectively 
assessed for impairment category. Where wholesale loans under forbearance have been impaired, these form part of individually assessed 
impaired loans.

Loans and advances assessed as impaired (audited)
Past due 

up to 
1 month

£m

Past due
1-2 months 

£m

Past due
2-3 months 

£m

Past due 
3-6 months

£m

Past due
6 months
and over 

£m

Total 
collectively

 assessed 
£m

Individually
assessed for
impairment 

£m 
Total 

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Home loans 2,866 795 201 298 452 4,612 820 5,432
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 1,135 354 250 516 1,702 3,957 492 4,449
Corporate loans 288 53 35 72 131 579 1,580 2,159
Total 4,289 1,202 486 886 2,285 9,148 2,892 12,040

As at 31 December 2015
Home loans 3,672 1,036 278 364 812 6,162 648 6,810
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 1,241 691 284 541 1,792 4,549 964 5,513
Corporate loans 251 76 45 76 96 544 1,786 2,330
Total 5,164 1,803 607 981 2,700 11,255 3,398 14,653

The decrease in loans collectively assessed as impaired to £9.1bn (2015: £11.3bn) predominantly relates to BAGL balances now held for sale.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 181

Potential credit risk loans (PCRLs) and coverage ratios
The Group reports potentially and actually impaired loans as PCRLs. PCRLs comprise two categories of loans: credit risk loans (CRLs) and potential 
problem loans (PPLs). 

CRLs comprise three classes of loans: 
■■ impaired loans: comprises loans where an individually identified impairment allowance has been raised. This category also includes all retail loans 

that have been transferred to a recovery book. See page 182 for further analysis of impaired loans 
■■ accruing past due 90 days or more: comprises loans that are 90 days or more past due with respect to principal or interest 
■■ impaired and restructured loans: comprises loans not included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor's financial 

difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered. For information on restructured loans refer 
to disclosures on forbearance on pages 182 to 185.

PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue to 
comply with such terms in the near future. If the credit quality of a wholesale loan on a watchlist deteriorates to the highest category, or a retail loan 
deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 (typically when past due 60 to 90 days), consideration is given to including it within the PPL category.

Potential credit risk loans and coverage ratios by business
CRLs PPLs PCRLs

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Barclays UK 2,044 2,238 310 382 2,354 2,620
Barclays International 1,249 863 192 117 1,441 980
Barclays Core 3,293 3,101 502 499 3,795 3,600
Barclays Non-Core 838 936 11 26 849 962
Total retail 4,131 4,037 513 525 4,644 4,562

Barclays UK 591 637 94 127 685 764
Barclays International 1,470 1,330 1,530 877 3,000 2,207
Barclays Core 2,061 1,967 1,624 1,004 3,685 2,971
Barclays Non-Core 299 441 59 122 358 563
Total wholesale 2,360 2,408 1,683 1,126 4,043 3,534
Total retail and wholesale 6,491 6,445 2,196 1,651 8,687 8,096
BAGL – 1,372 – 399 – 1,771
Group total 6,491 7,817 2,196 2,050 8,687 9,867

Impairment allowance CRL coverage PCRL coverage

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

%
2015

%
2016

%
2015

%

Barclays UK 1,519 1,556 74.3 69.5 64.5 59.4
Barclays International 1,492 897 119.5 103.9 103.5 91.5
Barclays Core 3,011 2,453 91.4 79.1 79.3 68.1
Barclays Non-Core 385 464 45.9 49.6 45.3 48.2
Total retail 3,396 2,917 82.2 72.3 73.1 63.9

Barclays UK 282 312 47.7 49.0 41.2 40.8
Barclays International 748 617 50.9 46.4 24.9 28.0
Barclays Core 1,030 929 50.0 47.2 28.0 31.3
Barclays Non-Core 194 336 64.9 76.2 54.2 59.7
Total wholesale 1,224 1,265 51.9 52.5 30.3 35.8
Total retail and wholesale 4,620 4,182 71.2 64.9 53.2 51.7
BAGL – 739 – 53.9 – 41.7
Group total 4,620 4,921 71.2 63.0 53.2 49.9

■■ Excluding BAGL balances, CRLs remained stable at £6.5bn (2015: £6.4bn) with the Group's CRL coverage ratio increasing to 71% (2015: 65%) 
mainly within retail portfolios 

■■ The CRL coverage ratio for retail portfolios increased to 82% (2015: 72%) primarily due to increased impairment allowances following the 
management review of the UK and US cards portfolio impairment modelling

■■ PPLs increased to £2.2bn (2015: £1.7bn) primarily within Barclays International wholesale portfolios. The increase was driven by exposures 
within the Corporate and Investment bank across a number of industries.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
182 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Impaired loans
The following table represents an analysis of impaired loans in line with the disclosure recommended by the Enhanced Disclosure Taskforce. 
Impaired loans are a subcomponent of CRLs (defined on page 181) and comprise loans where an individually identified impairment allowance has 
been raised. This category also includes all retail loans that have been transferred to a recovery book. For the majority of products, transfer to a 
recovery book occurs for loans that are past due over 6 months unless a forbearance agreement is agreed. Earlier transfer points may occur 
depending on specific circumstances. Impaired loans may include loans that are still performing, fully collateralised loans or where indebtedness 
has already been written down to the expected realisable value. 

Movement in impaired loans

At beginning
 of year

£m

Classified 
as impaired 

during 
the year

£m

Transferred 
to not 

impaired 
during 

the year
£m

Repayments
£m

Amounts
 written off

£m

Acquisitions 
and 

disposals
£m

Exchange 
and other

 adjustmentsa
£m

Balance 
at

31 December
£m

2016
Home loans 1,337 308 (150) (171) (19) – (165) 1,140
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 2,200 1,761 (17) (136) (1,605) (92) (407) 1,704
Corporate loans 2,098 984 (427) (220) (331) (15) (319) 1,770
Total impaired loans 5,635 3,053 (594) (527) (1,955) (107) (891) 4,614

       
2015        
Home loans 1,503 602 (192) (272) (97) – (207) 1,337
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 2,613 2,226 (112) (269) (1,873) – (385) 2,200
Corporate loans 2,683 1,032 (558) (208) (333) (43) (475) 2,098
Total impaired loans 6,799 3,860 (862) (749) (2,303) (43) (1,067) 5,635

Forbearance
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards a debtor that is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting their financial 
commitments (‘financial difficulties').

Analysis of forbearance programmes
Balances Impairment allowance Impairment coverage

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

%
2015

%

Barclays UK 926 1,036 237 191 25.6 18.4
Barclays International 243 185 57 46 23.5 24.9
Barclays Core 1,169 1,221 294 237 25.1 19.4
Barclays Non-Core 211 247 9 20 4.3 8.1
Total retail 1,380 1,468 303 257 22.0 17.5
Barclays UK 589 412 62 32 10.5 7.8
Barclays International 2,044 1,333 257 196 12.6 14.7
Barclays Core 2,633 1,745 319 228 12.1 13.1
Barclays Non-Core 269 459 50 146 18.5 31.8
Total wholesale 2,902 2,204 369 374 12.7 17.0
Group totalb 4,282 3,672 672 631 15.7 17.2

Balances on forbearance programmes increased 17% driven by an increase in forborne loans in Barclays International. 

Retail balances on forbearance programmes reduced  6% to £1.4bn and reflected a decrease in Barclays UK and Barclays Non-Core offset by an 
increase in Barclays International portfolios.
■■ Barclays UK: The reduction was driven by UK cards portfolio, where balances on forbearance plans are lower due to the application of an updated 

entry criteria, as well as asset sales.
■■ Barclays International: The increase in US cards forbearance was in line with portfolio growth and appreciation of the US Dollar against Sterling.

Wholesale balances on forbearance increased by 32% to £2.9bn due to an increase in the Barclays Core portfolio where forbearance programmes 
increased mainly in performing segments of the corporate portfolio due to a change in methodology, extending the previously narrow scope of 
forbearance in relation to adjustment on non-enforcement of convenants. This change has been applied consistently across the corporate portfolio 
with the increase primarily at the higher end of the corporate portfolio where there is a greater tendency for exposure to be under covenants.

Notes
a Exchange and other adjustments for 2016 includes the reclassification of £1,015m related to BAGL balances now held for sale offset by currency movements due to the appreciation 

of average US Dollar and Euro against Sterling. 
b Excludes BAGL balances now held for sale.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 183

Retail forbearance programmes
Forbearance on the Group's principal retail portfolios in the US and UK is presented below. The principal portfolios listed below account for 73% 
(2015: 76%) of total retail forbearance balances.

Analysis of key portfolios in forbearance programmes
Balances on forbearance programmes Marked 

to market 
LTV of

 forbearance 
balances:
 balance

 weighted
%

Marked 
to market 

LTV of 
forbearance 

balances:
 valuation 
weighted

%

Impairment
 allowances 

marked 
against 

balances on 
forbearance 

programmes
£m

Total 
balances on 
forbearance 

programmes
 coverage 

ratio
%

Of which:
Past due of which:

Total
£m

% of gross 
loans and 
advances

%
Up-to-date

£m

1-90 days 
past due

£m

91 or 
more days

 past due
£m

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK
UK home loans 390 0.3 188 149 53 44.7 31.3 3 0.8
UK cards 337 1.9 255 59 23 n/a n/a 185 54.9
UK personal loans 94 1.5 58 26 10 n/a n/a 38 40.4
Barclays International
US cards 186 0.8 139 35 12 n/a n/a 38 20.4

As at 31 December 2015
Barclays UK
UK home loans 445 0.3 211 177 57 48.0 34.1 4 0.8
UK cards 448 2.4 414 31 3 n/a  n/a 159 35.5
UK personal loans 85 1.6 60 22 3  n/a  n/a 21 24.6
Barclays International
US cards 133 0.8 92 30 11 n/a n/a 30 22.7

■■ UK home loans: Balances under forbearance decreased by 12% to £390m, principally due to fewer customers requiring forbearance in a stable 
macroeconomic environment. Total past due balances reduced by 14% to £202m in line with falling total balances under forbearance.

■■ UK cards: Balances on forbearance plans have reduced due to an updated entry criteria, as well as asset sales. The forbearance impairment 
coverage ratio has increased due to implementation of updated impairment methodology.

■■ UK personal loans: Increased forbearance coverage ratio reflects the changes in methodology to align with the impairment policy.
■■ US cards: Balances are higher in line with portfolio growth while the balances in arrears remain stable. Past-due balances as a proportion of total 

balances have reduced, which reflects in the lower forbearance impairment coverage ratio.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
184 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Forbearance by type
Barclays UK Barclays International

UK home loans UK cards UK personal loans US cards

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Payment concession 96 103 45 21 – – – –
Interest only conversion 84 94 – – – – – –
Term extension 210 248 – – 16 6 – –
Fully amortising – – – – 65 79 97 69 
Repayment plana – – 218 427 13 – 89 64 
Interest rate concession – – 74 – – – – –
Total 390 445 337 448 94 85 186 133 

Payment concessions in UK cards increased to £45m (2015: £21m), including an additional £31m identified in second half of the year following 
a review of policy adherence. These balances have been appropriately provisioned.

Repayment plan balances in UK cards decreased to £218m (2015: £427m) driven by an asset sale and the continued reduction in new repayment 
plan volumes. Following review of policy adherence, additional interest rate concession for UK cards (£74m) and repayment plan for UK personal 
loans (£13m) were identified in the year.

Wholesale forbearance programmes
The tables below detail balance information for wholesale forbearance cases.

Analysis of wholesale balances in forbearance programmesb
Balances on forbearance programmes Impairment 

allowances 
marked 
against 

balances on 
forbearance

 programmes
£m

Total 
balances on 
forbearance

 programmes 
coverage 

ratio
%

Of which:

Total 
balances

£m

% of gross
 loans and
 advances

%

Performing 
balances

£m

Impaired 
up-to-date

 balances
£m

Balances 
between 

1 and 90 days 
past due

£m

Balances 
91 days 
or more 

past due
£m

As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 589 3.9 187 93 78 231 62 10.5
Barclays International 2,044 1.1 1,285 567 33 159 257 12.6
Total Barclays Core 2,633 1.3 1,472 660 111 390 319 12.1

Barclays Non-Core 269 0.6 57 44 25 143 50 18.6
Total 2,902 1.2 1,529 704 136 533 369 12.7

As at 31 December 2015
Barclays UK 412 2.5 153 48 30 181 32 7.8
Barclays International 1,333 0.8 614 423 61 235 196 14.7
Total Barclays Core 1,745 1.0 767 471 91 416 228 13.1

Barclays Non-Core 459 1.1 118 101 5 235 146 31.8
Total 2,204 1.0 885 572 96 651 374 17.0

Notes
a Repayment plan represents a reduction to the minimum payment due requirements and interest rate.
b  2015 figures restated due to restructuring of portfolio from Barclays International to Non-Core. Figures exclude BAGL balances now held for sale.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 185

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by exposure class

Corporate
£m

Personal and 
trusts

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 32 – – 32
Restructure: maturity date extension 411 107 – 518
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 346 1 – 347
Restructure: payment other than cash 10 – – 10
Change in security 7 – – 7
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 1,242 155 – 1,397
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 438 153 – 591
Total 2,486 416 – 2,902

As at 31 December 2015
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 155 – – 155
Restructure: maturity date extension 563 23 62 648
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 250 1 – 251
Restructure: payment other than cash 12 – – 12
Change in security 7 1 – 8
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 295 92 – 387
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 535 208 – 743
Total 1,817 325 62 2,204

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by business unit

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m

Barclays
 Non-Core

£m
Total

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 3 29 – 32
Restructure: maturity date extension 114 316 88 518
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 180 164 3 347
Restructure: payment other than cash – 10 – 10
Change in security 1 6 – 7
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 132 1,212 53 1,397
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 159 307 125 591
Total 589 2,044 269 2,902

As at 31 December 2015
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 1 130 24 155
Restructure: maturity date extension 77 287 284 648
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 51 199 1 251
Restructure: payment other than cash – 12 – 12
Change in security 1 7 – 8
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 71 260 56 387
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 211 438 94 743
Total 412 1,333 459 2,204

Wholesale forbearance flows in 2016
£m

As at 1 January 2016 2,204
Added to forbearance 1,811
Removed from forbearance (credit improvement) (383)  
Fully or partially repaid and other movements (442)
Written off/moved to recovery book (288)
As at 31 December 2016 2,902

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
186 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

Impairment
Impairment allowances
Impairment allowances decreased 6% to £4,620m primarily due to the reclassification of BAGL balances now held for sale, partially offset by the 
impact of a management review of impairment modelling within the credit cards portfolios and increases within Barclays International due to volume 
growth, the appreciation of average US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and increased impairment for a number of single name exposures.

Movements in allowance for impairment by asset class (audited)

At beginning
of year

£m

Acquisitions
and

disposals
£m

Unwind of
discount

£m

Exchange
and other

adjustmentsa
£m 

Amounts
written off

£m



Recoveries
£m

Amounts
charged to

income
statement

£m

Balance at
31 December

£m

2016
Home loans 518 (3) (5) (108) (23) – 88 467
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 3,394 (2) (70) (709) (1,806) 296 1,957 3,060
Corporate loans 1,009 – – 81 (364) 69 298 1,093
Total impairment allowance 4,921 (5) (75) (736) (2,193) 365 2,343 4,620

2015
Home loans 547 – (32) (64) (94) 7 154 518
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 3,345 – (105) (170) (1,848) 301 1,871 3,394
Corporate loans 1,563 – (12) (383) (335) 92 84 1,009
Total impairment allowance 5,455 – (149) (617) (2,277) 400 2,109 4,921

Management adjustments to models for impairment
Management adjustments to models for impairment are applied in order to factor in certain conditions or changes in policy that are not incorporated 
into the relevant impairment models, or to ensure that the impairment allowance reflects all known facts and circumstances at the period end. 
Adjustments typically increase the model derived impairment allowance. Where applicable, management adjustments are reviewed and incorporated 
into future model development.

Management adjustments to models of more than £10m with respect to impairment allowance in our principal portfolios are presented below.

Principal portfolios that have management adjustments greater than £10m
2016 2015

As at 31 December

Total 
management 
adjustments 

to 
impairment 

stock,
 including 

forbearance
£m

Proportion 
of total

 impairment 
stock

%

Total 
management 
adjustments 

to 
impairment 

stock, 
including 

forbearance
£m

Proportion 
of total 

impairment 
stock

%

Barclays UK
  UK cards 312 34 147 17
  UK home loans 70 69 68 67
  UK business lending 69 33 67 36
Barclays International   
  US cards 278 24 58 9
  Corporate Banking 71 14 116 25
  Barclays Partner Finance 59 37 41 28
  Germany cards 29 23 20 21

During 2016, the models were aligned to a strengthened Retail Impairment Policy, following which adjustments were reviewed.

UK and US cards: Higher provisions held pending full implementation of newly developed and independently approved models with enhanced 
methodology following an impairment policy revision in Q3 16.

UK home loans: To capture the potential impact from an increase in the house price to earnings ratio, change in the impairment methodology 
and increased coverage on interest-only loans maturing in the next five years.

UK business lending: To align to impairment policy requirements, potential impact from commercial property price deterioration and the 
susceptibility of minimum debt service customers to interest rate rises not currently captured in models.

Corporate Banking: Reflects release against single names in the oil and gas sector.

Barclays Partner Finance: Due to increased risk in the secured motor portfolio along with adjustments on account of impairment methodology.

Germany cards: To align to impairment methodology and increased cover on forbearance programme.

Note
a Exchange and other adjustments for 2016 primarily includes the reclassification of £762m related to BAGL now held for sale offset by currency movements due to the appreciation of 

average US Dollar and Euro against Sterling.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 187

Analysis of debt securities
Debt securities include government securities held as part of the Group's treasury management portfolio for liquidity and regulatory purposes, 
and are for use on a continuing basis in the activities of the Group.

The following tables provide an analysis of debt securities held by the Group for trading and investment purposes by issuer type, and where the 
Group held government securities exceeding 10% of shareholders' equity.

Further information on the credit quality of debt securities is presented on pages 169 to 170. Further disclosure on sovereign exposures in the 
Eurozone is presented on page 172.

Debt securities
2016 2015

As at 31 December £m % £m %
Of which issued by: 
Governments and other public bodies 64,852 63.7 96,537 70.9
Corporate and other issuers 28,284 27.8 26,166 19.2
US agency 6,208 6.1 8,927 6.6
Mortgage and asset backed securities 2,372 2.3 4,009 2.9
Bank and building society certificates of deposit 23 0.1 598 0.4
Total 101,739 100.0 136,237 100.0

Government securities

As at 31 December

2016
Fair value

£m

2015
Fair value

£m

United Kingdom 20,145 22,372
United States 16,284 26,119

Analysis of derivatives (audited)
The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting 
arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.

Derivative assets 
2016 2015

As at 31 December

Balance sheet
assets

£m 

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m

Balance sheet
assets 

£m

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m

Foreign exchange 79,744 59,040 20,704 54,936 40,301 14,635
Interest rate 228,652 185,723 42,929 231,426 190,513 40,913
Credit derivatives 16,273 12,891 3,382 18,181 14,110 4,071
Equity and stock index 17,089 12,603 4,486 13,799 8,358 5,441
Commodity derivatives 4,868 3,345 1,523 9,367 6,300 3,067
Total derivative assets 346,626 273,602 73,024 327,709 259,582 68,127
Cash collateral held 41,641 34,918
Net exposure less collateral 31,383 33,209

Derivative asset exposures would be £315bn (2015: £295bn) lower than reported under IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with 
the same counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral. Similarly, derivative liabilities would be £317bn (2015: £295bn) lower reflecting 
counterparty netting and collateral placed. In addition, non-cash collateral of £8bn (2015: £7bn) was held in respect of derivative assets. The Group 
received collateral from clients in support of over the counter derivative transactions. These transactions are generally undertaken under International 
Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA) agreements governed by either UK or New York law.

Exposure relating to derivatives, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing and loan transactions is calculated using 
internal PRA approved models. These are used as the basis to assess both regulatory capital and capital appetite and are managed on a daily basis. 
The methodology encompasses all relevant factors to enable the current value to be calculated and the future value to be estimated, for example, 
current market rates, market volatility and legal documentation (including collateral rights).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
188 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk

The table below sets out the fair value and notional amounts of OTC derivative instruments by type of collateral arrangement.

Derivatives by collateral arrangement
2016 2015

Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value Notional
 contract 
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Unilateral in favour of Barclays
Foreign exchange 17,713 607 (274) 15,645 242 (308)
Interest rate 6,666 1,017 (60) 4,365 846 (65)
Credit derivatives 174 3 (2) 277 2 (7)
Equity and stock index 390 3 (147) 303 4 (146)
Commodity derivatives 753 33 (26) 905 150 (30)
Total unilateral in favour of Barclays 25,696 1,663 (509) 21,495 1,244 (556)
Unilateral in favour of counterparty
Foreign exchange 20,837 786 (2,549) 50,343 810 (2,107)
Interest rate 108,915 3,795 (5,979) 121,231 4,436 (6,981)
Credit derivatives 152 3 (7) 140 3 (1)
Equity and stock index 1,121 312 (49) 827 100 (83)
Commodity derivatives 1,231 67 (66) 74 – (3)
Total unilateral in favour of counterparty 132,256 4,963 (8,650) 172,615 5,349 (9,175)
Bilateral arrangement
Foreign exchange 3,772,477 70,464 (68,788) 2,878,125 46,831 (50,899)
Interest rate 7,335,641 187,155 (179,650) 7,315,345 197,900 (188,293)
Credit derivatives 608,859 11,422 (9,994) 663,090 13,617 (11,985)
Equity and stock index 192,448 6,146 (9,692) 144,108 4,991 (8,297)
Commodity derivatives 11,766 1,318 (1,442) 36,794 3,164 (3,104)
Total bilateral arrangement 11,921,191 276,505 (269,566) 11,037,462 266,503 (262,578)
Uncollateralised derivatives
Foreign exchange 363,921 7,490 (6,287) 271,819 7,008 (5,424)
Interest rate 184,362 5,723 (2,459) 193,565 6,091 (2,907)
Credit derivatives 5,872 383 (510) 7,881 467 (700)
Equity and stock index 13,706 2,558 (3,385) 6,672 2,204 (3,075)
Commodity derivatives 16,389 504 (748) 13,347 1,733 (1,667)
Total uncollateralised derivatives 584,250 16,658 (13,389) 493,284 17,503 (13,773)
Total OTC derivative assets/(liabilities) 12,663,393 299,789 (292,114) 11,724,856 290,599 (286,082)

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 189

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Analysis of market risk 
Market risk is the risk of a reduction 
in earnings or capital due to volatility of 
trading book positions or an inability to fully 
hedge the banking book balance sheet.

This section contains key disclosures 
describing the Group's market risk 
profile, highlighting regulatory as well 
as management measures.

Key metrics
Value at Risk increased in the year due to increased volatility. 
The income sensitivity to falling rates has increased compared  
to 2015 as a result of the lower GBP rate environment and 
subsequent deposit repricing.

24%
Increase in management Value at Risk

-£220m
Decrease in Annual Earnings at Risk from a negative  
25bps shock in interest rates (floored assumption) 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
190 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Summary of Contents Page
■■ Overview of Market Risk and Summary of Performance  

in the Period
191 Outlines key measures used to summarise the market risk profile of the 

bank such as Value at Risk (VaR) and Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR). 
A distinction is made between management and regulatory measures.

■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 192 Provides a Group-wide overview of where assets and liabilities on the 
Group's balance sheet are managed within regulatory traded and 
non-traded books.

Traded Market Risk
■■ Review of Management Measures The Group discloses details on management measures of market risk. 

Total management VaR includes all trading positions and is presented 
on a diversified basis by risk factor. 

This section also outlines stress scenarios including macroeconomic 
conditions modelled as part of the Group's risk management framework.

The Group's regulatory measures of market risk under the approved 
internal models approach are also disclosed.

As part of this year's disclosure, both 1-day and 10-day VaR have been 
included.

 – The daily average, maximum and minimum values of 
management VaR

193

 – Business scenario stresses 194

■■ Review of Regulatory Measures
 – Analysis of Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive 
Risk Measure

194

 – Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures 
by portfolio.

194

Non-Traded Market Risk
■■ Overview 195 A description of the non-traded market risk framework is provided.

The Group discloses a sensitivity analysis on pre-tax net interest income 
for non-trading financial assets and liabilities. The analysis is carried out 
by Business Unit and currency.

The Group measures some non-traded market risks, in particular 
prepayment, recruitment and residual risk using an Economic Capital 
methodology.

The Group discloses the overall impact of a parallel shift in interest rates 
on retained earnings, available for sale and cash flow hedges.

The Group measure the volatility of the value of the available for sale 
instruments in the liquidity pool through non-traded market risk VaR.

The Group discloses the two sources of foreign exchange risk that it 
is exposed to.

A review focusing on the UK retirement fund, which represents majority 
of the Group's total retirement benefit obligation. 

■■ Net Interest Income Sensitivity 195
 – by business unit
 – by currency

■■ Economic Capital by Business Unit 196

■■ Analysis of Equity Sensitivity 196

■■ Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 197

■■ Foreign Exchange Risk 197
 – Transactional foreign currency exposure 197
 – Translational foreign exchange exposure 197
 – Functional currency of operations. 198

■■ Pension Risk Review 198
 – Assets and liabilities 198
 – IAS 19 position 199
 – Risk measurement 199

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 191

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Overview of market risk
This section contains key statistics describing the market risk profile 
of the Group, such as Value at Risk (VaR) and Annual Earnings at risk 
(AEaR) measures. A distinction is made between regulatory and 
management measures within the section. The market risk 
management sections on pages 138 to 145 and 150 to 157 of the 
Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report provide descriptions of these metrics:

■■ page 192 provides a view of market risk in the context of the 
Group's balance sheet

■■ pages 193 to 194 cover the management of traded market risk. 
Management measures are shown from page 193 and regulatory 
equivalent measures are shown from page 194

■■ non-traded market risk, arising from our banking books, is reviewed 
from page 195.

Measures of market risk in the Group 
and accounting measures
Traded market risk measures such as VaR and balance sheet exposure 
measures have fundamental differences:

■■ balance sheet measures show accruals-based balances or marked 
to market values as at the reporting date

■■ VaR measures also take account of current marked to market values, 
but in addition hedging effects between positions are considered 

■■ market risk measures are expressed in terms of changes in value 
or volatilities as opposed to static values.

For these reasons, it is not possible to present direct reconciliations of 
traded market risk and accounting measures. The table ‘Balance sheet 
view of trading and banking books', on page 192, helps the reader 
understand the main categories of assets and liabilities subject to 
regulatory market risk measures.

Summary of performance in the period
Overall, the Group has maintained a steady risk profile, 
with key movements outlined below:

■■ measures of traded market risk, such as value at risk (VaR), 
increased in the year mainly due to the underlying movements to 
credit spreads and volatility in the cross currency markets driven 
by market structural changes

■■ Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR), is a key measure of interest rate 
risk volatility in the banking book (IRRBB). This sensitivity measure 
decreased in 2016, driven by two factors: the reduction in GBP base 
rate in August 2016 with the 0% model floor; and additional 
protection that the Group has put in place to reduce exposure 
to a possible further reduction in GBP base rate

■■ pension risks are disclosed from page 198 onwards.

Market risk
Market risk is the risk of a reduction in 
earnings or capital due to volatility of the 
trading book positions or as a consequence 
of running a banking book balance sheet 
and liquidity funding pools.

All disclosures in this section (pages 191 to 199) are unaudited unless otherwise 
stated. Disclosures for 2016 and 2015 exclude BAGL balances held for sale 
unless otherwise stated.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
192 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Balance sheet view of trading and banking books
As defined by regulatory rules, a trading book consists of positions held for trading intent or to hedge elements of the trading book. 
Trading intent must be evidenced in the basis of the strategies, policies and procedures set up by the firm to manage the position or portfolio. 
The table below provides a Group-wide overview of where assets and liabilities on the Group's balance sheet are managed within regulatory 
traded and non-traded books.

The balance sheet split by trading book and banking books is shown on an IFRS accounting scope of consolidation. The reconciliation between the 
accounting and regulatory scope of consolidation is shown in table 1 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Balance sheet split by trading and banking books 

As at 31 December 2016

Banking 
booka

£m

Trading 
book

£m
Total

£m
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 – 102,353
Items in course of collection from other banks 1,467 – 1,467
Trading portfolio assets 1,160 79,080 80,240
Financial assets designated at fair value 10,475 68,133 78,608
Derivative financial instruments 1,551 345,075 346,626
Financial investments 63,317 – 63,317
Loans and advances to banks 42,288 963 43,251
Loans and advances to customers 373,156 19,628 392,784
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 – 13,454
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2,893 – 2,893
Investments in associates and joint ventures  684 – 684
Property, plant and equipment 2,825 – 2,825
Goodwill and intangible assets 7,726 – 7,726
Current tax assets  561 – 561
Deferred tax assets 4,869 – 4,869
Retirement benefit assets 14 – 14
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for saleb 64,139 7,315 71,454
Total assets 692,932 520,194 1,213,126

Deposits from banks 46,905 1,309 48,214
Items in course of collection due to other banks 636 – 636
Customer accounts 408,434 14,744 423,178
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 19,760 – 19,760
Trading portfolio liabilities – 34,687 34,687
Financial liabilities designated at fair value: 5,059 90,972 96,031
Derivative financial instruments 883 339,604 340,487
Debt securities in issue 75,932 – 75,932
Subordinated liabilities 23,383 – 23,383
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 8,830 41 8,871
Provisions 4,134 – 4,134
Current tax liabilities 737 – 737
Deferred tax liabilities 29 – 29
Retirement benefit liabilities 390 – 390
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for saleb 60,703 4,589 65,292
Total liabilities 655,815 485,946 1,141,761

Included within the trading book are assets and liabilities which are included in the market risk regulatory measures. For more information on these 
measures (VaR, SVaR, IRC and APR) see the risk management section on page 138 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Notes
a  The primary risk factors for banking book assets and liabilities are interest rates and to a lesser extent, foreign exchange rates. Credit spreads and equity prices will also be factors 

where the Group holds debt and equity securities respectively, either as financial assets designated at fair value (see Note 15) or as available for sale (see Note 17).
b Including BAGL.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 193

Traded market risk review
Review of management measures
The following disclosures provide details on management measures of market risk. See the risk management section on page 138 of the Barclays 
PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report for more detail on management measures and the differences when compared to regulatory measures.

The table below shows the total Management VaR on a diversified basis by risk factor. Total Management VaR includes all trading positions in 
Barclays International, Non-Core, BAGL and Head Office.

Limits are applied against each risk factor VaR as well as total Management VaR, which are then cascaded further by risk managers to each business.

The daily average, maximum and minimum values of management VaRa

Management VaR (95%) (audited)

For the year ended 31 December 

2016 2015
Average

£m
Highb

£m
Lowb

£m
Average

£m
Highb

£m
Lowb

£m

Credit risk 16 24 9 11 17 8
Interest rate risk 7 13 4 6 14 4
Equity risk 7 11 4 8 18 4
Basis risk 5 9 3 3 4 2
Spread risk  3 5 2 3 6 2
Foreign exchange risk  3 5 2 3 6 1
Commodity risk 2 4 1 2 3 1
Inflation risk  2 3 2 3 5 2
Diversification effectb (24) n/a n/a (22) n/a n/a
Total management VaR 21 29 13 17 25 12

Average Credit Risk VaR increased by £5m to £16m (2015: £11m) primarily due to the underlying volatile movements to credit spreads given own 
credit contribution.

Average Basis VaR increased by £2m to £5m (2015: £3m) primarily due to a combination of structural changes in the cross currency markets that 
led to higher volatility and higher client activity in G10 cross currency basis. 

Average Equity VaR decreased by £1m to £7m (2015: £8m) reflecting reduced cash portfolio activities and a more conservative risk profile 
maintained in the derivatives portfolio.

Average Foreign Exchange Risk VaR was stable as a result of maintaining a conservative risk profile in the derivatives portfolio.

Group Management VaRa (£m)

Jan
2015

Jan
2016

31 Dec
2016

60

40

20

0

The daily VaR chart illustrates an average increasing trend in 2016. Intermittent VaR increases were due to increased client flow in periods 
of heightened volatility in specific markets and subsequent risk management of the position.

Notes
a Including BAGL. 
b  Diversification effects recognise that forecast losses from different assets or businesses are unlikely to occur concurrently, hence the expected aggregate loss is lower than the 

sum of the expected losses from each area. Historic correlations between losses are taken into account in making these assessments. The high and low VaR figures reported 
for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low VaR reported as a whole. Consequently a diversification effect balance for the high and low 
VaR figures would not be meaningful and is therefore omitted from the above table.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
194 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Business Scenario Stresses

As part of the Group's risk management framework the performance of the trading business in hypothetical scenarios characterised by severe 
macroeconomic conditions is modelled. Up to seven global scenarios are modelled on a regular basis, for example, a sharp deterioration in liquidity, 
a slowdown in the global economy, terrorist attacks, global recession, and a sharp increase in economic growth.

In 2016, the scenario analyses showed that the largest market risk related impacts would be due to a severe deterioration in market liquidity and 
global recession.

Review of regulatory measures
The following disclosures provide details on regulatory measures of Market risk. See pages 141 to 143 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report for 
more detail on regulatory measures and the differences when compared to management measures.

The Group's market risk capital requirement comprises two elements:

■■ the market risk of trading book positions booked to legal entities that are measured under a PRA approved internal models approach, including 
Regulatory VaR, Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR), Incremental Risk Charge (IRC), and Comprehensive Risk Measure as required

■■ trading book positions that do not meet the conditions for inclusion within the approved internal models approach. The capital requirement for 
these positions is calculated using standardised rules.

The table below summarises the regulatory market risk measures, under the internal models approach. See Table 65 ‘Market risk own funds 
requirements' on page 85 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report for a breakdown of capital requirements by approach.

Analysis of Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive Risk Measure
Year-end

£m
Avg.

£m
Max

£m
Min
£m

As at 31 December 2016
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 33 26 34 18
Regulatory VaR (10-day)a 105 84 108 57
SVaR (1-day) 65 56 75 34
SVaR (10-day)a 205 178 236 109
IRC 154 155 238 112
Comprehensive Risk Measure 2 5 12 2

As at 31 December 2015
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 26 28 46 20
Regulatory VaR (10-day)a 82 89 145 63
SVaR (1-day) 44 54 68 38
SVaR (10-day)a 139 171 215 120
IRC 129 142 254 59
Comprehensive Risk Measure 12 15 27 11

Overall, there was an increase in average IRC in 2016, with no significant movements in other internal model components:

■■ Regulatory VaR/SVaR: Remained broadly stable year on year.
■■ IRC: Increased primarily due to positional increases in the third quarter of 2016.
■■ Comprehensive Risk Measure: Reduced as a result of further reductions in a specific legacy portfolio.

Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolio

As at 31 December 2016
Macro

£m
Equities

£m
Credit

£m

Barclays 
International 

Treasuryb
£m

Bankingb
£m

Group 
Treasury

£m

Barclays 
Non-Core

£m
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 14 12 6 14 12 5 6
Regulatory VaR (10-day) 44 38 20 45 40 15 21
SVaR (1-day) 22 43 7 30 18 9 22
SVaR (10-day) 69 137 24 95 58 30 69
IRC 220 8 146 196 25 10 18
Comprehensive Risk Measure – – – – – – 2

The table above shows the primary portfolios which drove the trading businesses' modelled capital requirement as at 31 December 2016.  
The stand-alone portfolio results diversify at the total level and are not necessarily additive. Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive 
Risk Measure in the prior table show the diversified results at a Group level. 

Notes
a  The 10 day VaR is based on scaling of 1 day VaR model output. More information about Regulatory and Stressed VaR methodology is available in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 

Report on page 141.
b  In the fourth quarter, the Client Capital Management (CCM) portfolio was split into Barclays International Treasury, Banking and Agency Derivative Services (ADS) and Financing. 

For the purposes of the disclosures, only material portfolios (Barclays International Treasury and Banking) have been included.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 195

Non-traded market risk
Overview
The non-traded market risk framework covers exposures in the banking book, mostly consisting of exposures relating to accrual accounted and 
available for sale instruments. The potential volatility of the net interest income of the bank is measured by an Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) 
metric that is monitored regularly and reported to Senior Management and the Board Risk Committee as part of the limit monitoring framework.

Net interest income sensitivity
The table below shows a sensitivity analysis on pre-tax net interest income for non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities, including the 
effect of any hedging. The sensitivity has been measured using the Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) methodology as described in the Barclays PLC 
2016 Pillar 3 Report. Note that this metric assumes an instantaneous parallel change to interest rate forward curves. The model floors shocked 
market rates at zero; changes in net interest income sensitivity are only observed where forward rates are greater than zero. The main model 
assumptions are: (i) one year time horizon; (ii) balance sheet is held constant; (iii) balances are adjusted for assumed behavioural profiles 
(i.e. considers that customers may remortgage before the contractual maturity); and (iv) behavioural assumptions are kept unchanged in 
all rate scenarios.

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by business unita,b (audited)
Barclays 

UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m

Barclays 
Non-Core

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2016
+25bps 5 16 1 22
–25bps (130) (90) – (220)

As at 31 December 2015
+25bps 16 21 5 42
–25bps (50) (41) – (91)

The income sensitivity to falling rates has increased compared to 2015 as a result of the lower GBP rate environment and subsequent deposit 
re-pricing.

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by currencyc 

As at 31 December 2016

+25 basis
points

£m

–25 basis
points

£m
GBP 9 (215)
USD 3 (5)
EUR 7 1 
Other currencies 3 (1)
Total 22 (220)
As percentage of net interest income 0.21% (2.09%)

Notes
a  The investment banking part of Barclays International has been excluded.
b  Excludes Treasury operations, which are driven by the Group's investments in the liquidity pool, which are risk managed using VaR measures described on page 197. 

Treasury's net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) sensitivity to a +25/-25bps move is £(39)m /£36m respectively.
c  Includes Barclays UK, Barclays International (excluding investment banking) and Non-Core sensitivity. Treasury excluded.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
196 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Economic Capital by business unit
Barclays measures some non-traded market risks using an economic capital (EC) methodology. EC is predominantly calculated using a daily  
VaR model scaled to a 99% confidence interval. A 99.98% confidence interval, as previously reported, is considered to be a very extreme shock  
i.e. a 1 in 5,000 event. A 99% confidence interval is considered more appropriate and also aligns to other regulatory submissions. For more 
information on definitions of prepayment, recruitment and residual risk, and on how EC is used to manage market risk, see the treasury and  
capital risk management section on page 138 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

Economic Capital by business unit
Barclays 

UK
£m

Barclays 
Internationala

£m

Barclays 
Non-Coreb

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2016
Prepayment risk 27 8 – 35
Recruitment risk 18 1 1 20
Residual risk 1 23 12 36
Total 46 32 13 91

As at 31 December 2015
Prepayment risk 20 7 – 27
Recruitment risk 39 4 4 47
Residual risk 2 26 3 31
Total 61 37 7 105

Total Economic Capital decreased by £14m to £91m (2015: £105m), mainly driven by recruitment risk in Barclays UK which decreased by £21m due 
to a reduction in market rates and volatility.

Analysis of equity sensitivity
The equity sensitivity table below measures the overall impact of a +/- 25bps movement in interest rates on retained earnings, available for sale and 
cash flow hedge reserves. This data is captured using a DV01 metric which is an indicator of the shift in value for a 1 basis point movement in the 
yield curve.

Analysis of equity sensitivity (audited)

As at 31 December

2016 2015
+25 basis

points
£m

–25 basis
points

£m

+25 basis
points

£m

–25 basis
points

£m

Net interest income 22 (220) 42 (91)
Taxation effects on the above (7) 66 (13) 27
Effect on profit for the year 15 (154) 29 (64)
As percentage of net profit after tax 0.54% (5.45%) 4.72% (10.22%)

Effect on profit for the year (per above) 15 (154) 29 (64)
Available for sale reserve (154) 114 (180) 248
Cash flow hedge reserve (732) 692 (754) 694
Taxation effects on the above 222 (202) 280 (283)
Effect on equity (649) 450 (625) 595
As percentage of equity (0.91%) 0.63% (0.95%) 0.90%

In relation to the net interest income sensitivity table on page 195, the impact of a 25bps movement in rates is largely driven by Barclays UK. 

The change in available for sale reserve sensitivities was driven by a reduction in interest rate risk in the liquidity pool during the year. 
Movements in the available for sale reserve would impact CRD IV fully loaded CET1 capital, however the movement in the cash flow hedge  
reserve would not impact CET1 capital.

Notes
a  Residual risk for Barclays International includes Barclays Bank Delaware products to align with the NII disclosure. Prior period restated on the same basis for consistency.
b  Only retail exposures within Non-Core are captured in this measure.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 197

Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 
Changes in value of available for sale exposures flow directly through capital via the available for sale reserve. The volatility of the value of 
the available for sale investments in the liquidity pool is captured and managed through a value measure rather than an earning measure,  
i.e. the Non-traded market risk VaR. 

Although the underlying methodology to calculate the non-traded VaR is identical to the one used in traded management VaR, the two measures 
are not directly comparable. The non-traded VaR represents the volatility to capital driven by the available for sale exposures. These exposures are  
in the banking book and do not meet the criteria for trading book treatment.

Volatility of the AFS portfolio in Liquidity Pool

Jan 16 Dec 16

50

40

30

Non-
traded
Value at 
Risk (£m)

Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Oct 16Sep 16 Nov 16

Analysis of volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 

For the year ended 31 December

2016 2015
Average

£m
High

£m
Low
£m

Average
£m

High
£m

Low
£m

Non-traded market Value at Risk (daily, 95%) 40 46 32 42 49 37

The Non-traded VaR is mainly driven by volatility of interest rates in developed markets in the chart above. The sharp reduction in available for 
sale VaR at the end of September was driven by a reduction in outright interest rate risk taken in the liquidity pool, which was re-established in 
early October.

Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk:

a) Transactional foreign currency exposure 
Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the transacting entity.

The Group's risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed 
by Barclays International which is monitored through VaR.

Banking book transactional foreign exchange risk outside of Barclays International is monitored on a daily basis by the Market Risk function and 
minimised by the businesses.

b) Translational foreign exchange exposure
The Group's investments in overseas subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollar, 
Euro and South African Rand. Changes in the Sterling value of the net investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency 
translation reserve, resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.

The Group's strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange movements by using the CET1 capital movements 
to broadly match the revaluation of the Group's foreign currency RWA exposures.

The economic hedges primarily represent the US Dollar and Euro preference shares and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instruments that are held as equity, 
accounted for at historic cost under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
198 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk

Functional currency of operations (audited)

Foreign
currency

net
investments

£m

Borrowings
which hedge

the net
investments

£m

Derivatives
which hedge

the net
investments

£m

Structural
currency

exposures
pre-economic

hedges
£m

Economic
hedges

£m

Remaining
structural
currency

exposures
£m

As at 31 December 2016
USD 29,460 (12,769) – 16,691 (7,898) 8,793
EUR 2,121 (363) – 1,758 (2,053) (295)
ZAR 3,679 – (2,571) 1,108 – 1,108
JPY 438 (209) (224) 5 – 5
Other 2,793 – (1,318) 1,475 – 1,475
Total 38,491 (13,341) (4,113) 21,037 (9,951) 11,086

As at 31 December 2015
USD 24,712 (8,839) (1,158) 14,715 (7,008) 7,707
EUR 2,002 (630) (14) 1,358 (1,764) (406)
ZAR 3,201 (4) (99) 3,098 – 3,098
JPY 383 (168) (205) 10 – 10
Other 2,927 – (1,294) 1,633 – 1,633
Total 33,225 (9,641) (2,770) 20,814 (8,772) 12,042

During 2016, total structural currency exposure net of hedging instruments decreased by £1.0bn to £11.1bn (2015: £12.0bn). The decrease 
was broadly driven by an increase in ZAR hedges following Barclays announcement to reduce the Group's interest in BAGL. Foreign currency 
net investments increased by £5.3bn to £38.5bn (2015: £33.2bn) driven predominantly by the appreciation of US Dollar against Sterling.  
The hedges associated with these investments increased by £5.0bn to £17.5bn (2015: £12.4bn).

Pension risk review
The UK Retirement Fund (UKRF) represents approximately 96% (2015: 92%) of the Group's total retirement benefit obligations globally.  
As such, this risk review section focuses exclusively on the UKRF. The UKRF is closed to new entrants, and there is no new final salary benefit 
being accrued. Existing active members accrue a combination of a cash balance benefit and a defined contribution element.

Pension risk arises as the estimated market value of the pension fund assets may decline, investment returns may reduce or the estimated value 
of the pension liabilities may increase.

See page 155 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report for more information on how pension risk is managed.

Assets
The Trustee Board of the UKRF defines its overall long-term investment strategy with investments across a broad range of asset classes. This ensures 
an appropriate mix of return seeking assets as well as liability matching assets to better match future pension obligations. The main market risks 
within the asset portfolio are against interest rates and equities. The split of scheme assets is shown within Note 35. The fair value of the UKRF 
assets was £31.8bn as at 31 December 2016. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 199

Liabilities
The UKRF retirement benefit obligations are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis these cash flows 
are sensitive to changes in the expected long-term price inflation rate (RPI) and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve):
■■ An increase in long-term expected inflation corresponds to an increase in liabilities
■■ A decrease in the discount rate corresponds to an increase in liabilities.

Pension risk is generated through the Group's defined benefit schemes and this risk is set to reduce over time as our main defined benefit scheme 
is closed to new entrants. The chart below outlines the shape of the UKRF's liability cash flow profile (as at 31 December 2016) that takes account 
of future inflation indexing of payments to beneficiaries, with the majority of the cash flows (approximately 83%) falling between 0 and 40 years, 
peaking within the 11 to 20 year band and reducing thereafter. The shape may vary depending on changes in inflation expectation and mortality. 

For more detail on the UKRF's financial and demographic assumptions see Note 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits. 

Proportion of liability cash flows Net IAS 19 Position

17.7%

25.4%

25.2%

17.9%

10.2%

3.6%

0-10 years

11-20 years

21-30 years

31-40 years

41-50 years

51 years +

Q4
2014

Q1
2015

Q2
2015

Q3
2015

Q4
2015

Q1
2016

Q2
2016

Q3
2016

Q4
2016

2

1

0

-2

-1

UKRF
surplus/
deficit 
(£bn)

The graph above shows the UKRF's net IAS19 pension position for each quarter-end for the past two years. The volatility shown by the fluctuation in 
the net IAS 19 pension position is reflective of the movements observed in the market. 

In Q2 2016, the UKRF IAS 19 position deteriorated as the AA discount rate moved lower, driven by both a decrease in long-dated government bond 
yields as well as tightening in credit spreads.

During H2 2016, this trend continued driven by the outcome of the EU Referendum in June as well as the Bank of England's announcement on 
quantitative easing in August. These events drove significant market moves adversely affecting the UKRF AA discount rate. For example, the market 
index IBOXX £-Corp AA yield was 53bps lower between June and September. 

Gilt yields reverted higher in the months following September which was also reflected in higher AA discount rate. As a result, the net IAS 19 position 
reverted close to zero as at 31 December 2016.

Please see Note 35 for the sensitivity of the UKRF to change in key assumptions.

Risk measurement
In line with Barclays' risk management framework, the assets and liabilities of the UKRF are modelled within a VaR framework to show the volatility of 
the pension positions on a total portfolio level. This ensures that the risks, diversification and liability matching characteristics of the UKRF obligations 
and investments are adequately captured. VaR is measured and monitored on a monthly basis. Risks are reviewed and reported regularly at forums 
including Market Risk Committee, Group Risk Committee, Pensions Management Group and Pension Executive Board. The VaR model takes into 
account the valuation of the liabilities based on an IAS 19 basis (see Note 35). The Trustee receives quarterly VaR measures on a funding basis.

The pension liability is also sensitive to post-retirement mortality assumptions which are also reviewed regularly. See Note 35 for more details.

In addition, the impact of pension risk to the Group is taken into account as part of stress testing process. Stress testing is performed internally 
on at least an annual basis. The UKRF exposure is included as part of the regulatory stress tests. 

Barclays defined benefit pension schemes affects capital in two ways: 
■■ An IAS 19 deficit is treated as a liability on the Group's balance sheet. Movement in a deficit due to remeasurements, including actuarial losses, are 
recognised immediately through Other Comprehensive Income and as such reduces shareholders' equity and CET1 capital. An IAS 19 surplus is 
treated as an asset on the balance sheet and increases shareholders' equity, however is deducted for the purposes of determining CET1 capital.

■■ In the Group's statutory balance sheet, an IAS 19 surplus or deficit is partially offset by a deferred tax liability or asset respectively. These may or 
may not be recognised for calculating CET1 capital depending on the overall deferred tax position of the Group at the particular time.

■■ Pension risk is taken into account in the Pillar 2A capital assessment undertaken by the PRA at least annually. The Pillar 2A requirement forms part 
of the Group's overall regulatory minimum requirement for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. More detail on minimum regulatory 
requirements can be found in the Funding risk – Capital section on page 200.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
200 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – Capital

Analysis of capital risk 
Capital risk is the risk that the Group has 
insufficient capital resources to (i) meet 
minimum regulatory requirements in all 
jurisdictions; (ii) support its credit rating; 
and (iii) support its business strategy.

This section details Barclays' capital position 
providing information on both capital resources 
and capital requirements. It also provides 
details of the leverage ratio and exposures.

Key metrics

 12.4% 
Fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 
The fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio increased to 12.4% (2015: 11.4%) 
reflecting an increase in CET1 capital of £4.5bn to £45.2bn, despite 
RWAs increasing by £7bn to £366bn.

The increase in CET1 capital was largely driven by profits of £2.1bn 
generated in the period, after absorbing the impact of notable items. 
Other favourable movements included the currency translation 
reserve as a result of the appreciation of all major currencies 
against Sterling.

The increase in RWAs was principally due to the appreciation of 
South African Rand, US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and business 
growth, which more than offset RWA reductions in Non-Core.

4.6%
Leverage ratio 
The leverage ratio increased to 4.6% (2015: 4.5%) driven by a £5.8bn 
increase in fully loaded Tier 1 capital to £52.0bn partially offset by an 
increase in the leverage exposure of £97bn to £1,125bn.

Total IFRS assets increased 8% to £1,213bn from 2015 contributing 
to the 9% increase in the leverage exposure.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 201

Summary of Contents Page
■■ Capital risk overview and summary of performance 202 Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources 

to (i) meet minimum regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions; 
(ii) support its credit rating; and (iii) support its business strategy.

This section details Barclays' capital position providing information on 
both capital resources and capital requirements. It also provides details 
of the leverage ratio and exposures.

■■ Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements
 – Capital
 – Leverage

■■ Analysis of capital resources 203 This section outlines the Group's capital ratios, capital composition, and 
provides information on significant movements in CET1 capital during 
the year.

 – Capital ratios
 – Capital resources
 – Movement in CET1 capital

■■ Analysis of risk weighted assets 205 This section outlines risk weighted assets by risk type, business and 
macro drivers. – Risk weighted assets by risk type and business

 – Movement analysis of risk weighted assets
■■ Analysis of leverage ratio and exposures 206 This section outlines the Group's leverage ratios, leverage exposure 

composition, and provides information on significant movements in the 
IFRS and leverage balance sheet.

 – Leverage ratio and exposures

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
202 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – Capital

Overview
The fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio, among other metrics, is a measure 
of the capital strength and resilience of Barclays. Maintenance of our 
capital is vital in order to meet the minimum capital requirements of 
regulatory authorities and to fund growth within our businesses.

This section provides an overview of the Group's: (i) regulatory minimum 
capital and leverage requirements; (ii) capital resources; (iii) risk 
weighted assets (RWAs); and (iv) leverage ratio and exposures.

Summary of performance in the period
Barclays continues to be in excess of the minimum transitional and fully 
loaded capital requirements and PRA capital and leverage requirements.

The fully loaded CET1 ratio increased to 12.4% (2015: 11.4%) reflecting 
an increase in CET1 capital of £4.5bn to £45.2bn, despite RWAs 
increasing by £7bn to £366bn.

The increase in CET1 capital was largely driven by profits of £2.1bn 
generated in the period, after absorbing the impact of notable items. 
Other favourable movements included the currency translation reserve 
as a result of the appreciation of all major currencies against Sterling. 

The increase in RWAs was principally due to the appreciation of South 
African Rand, US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and business growth, 
which more than offset RWA reductions in Non-Core.

The leverage ratio increased to 4.6% (2015: 4.5%) driven by a £5.8bn 
increase in fully loaded Tier 1 capital to £52.0bn partially offset by an 
increase in the leverage exposure of £97bn to £1,125bn.

Total IFRS assets increased 8% to £1,213bn from 2015 contributing to 
the 9% increase in leverage exposure.

The IFRS asset increase was mainly driven by loans and advances and 
other assets which increased £82bn to £707bn. The increase was 
primarily due to the appreciation of major currencies against Sterling, an 
increase in liquidity pool assets, and lending growth in Barclays UK and 
Barclays International. This was partially offset by the rundown and exit 
of Non-Core assets.

Net derivative leverage exposure, remained broadly flat as an increase in 
assets of £19bn to £347bn was offset by an increase in derivative 
liabilities resulting in regulatory derivative netting increasing £20bn to 
£313bn. The increase was mainly within foreign exchange derivatives 
driven by an increase in trade volumes and appreciation of all major 
currencies against Sterling.

Regulatory minimum capital and leverage 
requirements
Capital 
Barclays' current regulatory requirement is to meet a fully loaded CRD IV 
CET1 ratio comprising the required 4.5% minimum CET1 ratio and, 
phased in from 2016, a Combined Buffer Requirement. This currently 
comprises a Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) of 2.5% and a Globally 
Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) buffer determined by the PRA 
in line with guidance from the Financial Stability Board (FSB). Both 
buffers are subject to phased implementation, the CCB is phased in at 
25% per annum with 0.625% applicable for 2016. The G-SII buffer for 
2016 and 2017 has been set at 2% and is also phased in at 25% per 
annum with 0.5% applicable for 2016 and 1% for 2017. On 21 November 
2016 the FSB confirmed that the G-SII buffer for 2018 will be 1.5% with 
1.1% applicable for 2018 and taking full effect from 2019 onwards.

Also forming part of the Combined Buffer Requirement is a Counter-
Cyclical Capital Buffer (CCyB) and a Systemic Risk Buffer (SRB). On 
30 November 2016 the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) reaffirmed that 
it expects to maintain a CCyB of 0% on UK exposures until at least June 
2017. Other national authorities also determine the appropriate CCyBs 
that should be applied to exposures in their jurisdiction. During 2016, 
CCyBs started to apply for Barclays' exposures to other jurisdictions; 
however based on current exposures these are not material. No SRB 
has been set to date. 

In addition, Barclays' Pillar 2A requirement as per the PRA's Individual 
Capital Guidance (ICG) for 2016 based on a point in time assessment 
was 3.9% of which 56% needs to be met in CET1 form, equating to 
approximately 2.2% of RWAs. The Pillar 2A requirement is subject to at 
least annual review and for 2017 Barclays' Pillar 2A add-on will be 4.0%, 
with approximately 2.3% of RWAs needing to be met in CET1 form. All 
capital, RWA and leverage calculations reflect Barclays' interpretation of 
the current rules.

The CRD IV CET1 transitional minimum capital requirement for 2016 
is 7.8% including the 4.5% CET1 ratio requirement, 2.2% of Pillar 2A, 
a 0.625% CCB buffer, a 0.5% G-SII buffer and a 0% CCyB.

Leverage
Effective 1 January 2016, Barclays is required to disclose a leverage ratio 
and an average leverage ratio applicable to the Group:

■■ The leverage ratio is consistent with the December 2015 method of 
calculation and has been included in our disclosure. The calculation 
uses the end point CRR definition of Tier 1 capital for the numerator 
and the CRR definition of leverage exposure. The current expected 
minimum fully loaded requirement is 3%, but this could be impacted 
by the Basel Consultation on the Leverage Framework

■■ The average leverage ratio as outlined by the PRA Supervisory 
Statement SS45/15 and the updated PRA rulebook is calculated as the 
capital measure divided by the exposure measure, where the capital 
and exposure measure is based on the average of the last day of each 
month in the quarter. The expected end point minimum requirement 
is 3.5% comprising of the 3% minimum requirement, a fully phased in 
G-SII additional leverage ratio buffer (G-SII ALRB) and a countercyclical 
leverage ratio buffer (CCLB). The minimum requirement is on a 
phased basis in line with CET1 G-SII buffer which results in a 
minimum requirement of 3.175% at 31 December 2016.

In August 2016, the PRA implemented the FPC's recommendation to 
allow firms to exclude qualifying central bank claims from the calculation 
of the leverage exposure measure, as long as these are matched by 
deposits denominated in the same currency, subject to firms obtaining 
permission from the PRA. This change in reporting requirements is 
effective 1 April 2017, which will result in a modification to the 
calculation of the exposure measure for the purpose of calculating the 
UK leverage ratio. At 31 December 2016, Barclays' reported leverage ratio 
and average leverage ratio disclosed is unaffected by this announcement 
as firms are required to disclose based on the existing rules. 

Capital risk
Capital risk is the risk that the Group has 
insufficient capital resources to:
■  meet minimum regulatory requirements  

in all jurisdictions 
■  support its credit rating; and
■  support its business strategy.

More details on monitoring and managing 
capital risk may be found in the Risk 
Management sections on pages 150 to 157 
of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.

All disclosures in this section (pages 202 to 224) are unaudited unless otherwise 
stated. Disclosures for 2016 and 2015 include BAGL balances held for sale unless 
otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 203

Capital Resources
The CRR and Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) implemented Basel III within the EU (collectively known as CRD IV) on 1 January 2014.  
The rules are supplemented by Regulatory Technical Standards and the PRA's rulebook, including the implementation of transitional rules. However, 
rules and guidance are still subject to change as certain aspects of CRD IV are dependent on final technical standards and clarifications to be issued 
by the EBA and adopted by the European Commission and the PRA. 

Capital ratios
As at 31 December 2016 2015
Fully Loaded CET1a,b 12.4% 11.4%
PRA Transitional Tier 1c,d 15.6% 14.7%
PRA Transitional Total Capitalc,d 19.6% 18.6%

Capital resources (audited)

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m

Shareholders' equity (excluding non-controlling interests) per the balance sheet 64,873 59,810
Less: other equity instruments (recognised as AT1 capital) (6,449) (5,305)
Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends (388) (631)

Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) 1,825 950

Other regulatory adjustments and deductions
Additional value adjustments (PVA) (1,571) (1,602)
Goodwill and intangible assets (9,054) (8,234)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding temporary differences (494) (855)
Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow hedges (2,104) (1,231)
Excess of expected losses over impairment (1,294) (1,365)
Gains or losses on liabilities at fair value resulting from own credit 86 127
Defined benefit pension fund assets (38) (689)
Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (50) (57)
Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold) (183) –
Other regulatory adjustments 45 (177)
Fully loaded CET1 capital 45,204 40,741

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 6,449 5,305
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 5,445 6,718
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (130) (130)
Transitional AT1 capitale 11,764 11,893
PRA transitional Tier 1 capital 56,968 52,634

Tier 2 (T2) capital
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 3,769 1,757
Qualifying Tier 2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 11,366 12,389
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (257) (253)
PRA transitional total regulatory capital 71,846 66,527

Notes
a The transitional regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital are no longer applicable resulting in CET1 capital on a fully loaded basis being equal to that on a transitional basis.
b The CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) as applicable to Barclays' Tier 2 Contingent Capital Notes was 13.7% based on £50.0bn of transitional CRD IV 

CET 1 capital and £366bn RWAs.
c The PRA transitional capital is based on the PRA Rulebook and accompanying supervisory statements.
d As at 31 December 2016, Barclays' fully loaded Tier 1 capital was £51,993m, and the fully loaded Tier 1 ratio was 14.2%. Fully loaded total regulatory capital was £67,772m and the 

fully loaded total capital ratio was 18.5%. The fully loaded Tier 1 capital and total capital measures are calculated without applying the transitional provisions set out in CRD IV and 
assessing compliance of AT1 and Tier 2 instruments against the relevant criteria in CRD IV. 

e Of the £11.8bn transitional AT1 capital, fully loaded AT1 capital used for the leverage ratio comprises the £6.4bn capital instruments and related share premium accounts, £0.5bn 
qualifying minority interests and £0.1bn capital deductions. It excludes legacy Tier 1 capital instruments issued by subsidiaries that are subject to grandfathering.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
204 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – Capital

Movement in CET1 capital
2016

£m
Opening balance as at 1 January 40,741

Profit for the period attributable to equity holders 2,080
Own credit (41)
Dividends paid and foreseen (843)
Increase in retained regulatory capital generated from earnings 1,196

Net impact of share awards 535
Available for sale reserves (391)
Currency translation reserves 3,674
Other reserves (778)
Increase in other qualifying reserves 3,040

Retirement benefit reserve (988)
Defined benefit pension fund asset deduction 651
Net impact of pensions (337)

Minority interests 875
Additional value adjustments (PVA) 31
Goodwill and intangible assets (820)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 361
Excess of expected loss over impairment 71
Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments 7
Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold) (183)
Other regulatory adjustments 222
Increase in regulatory capital due to adjustments and deductions 564
Closing balance as at 31 December 45,204

The CET1 ratio improved to 12.4% (2015: 11.4%) primarily driven by an increase in CET1 capital of £4.5bn to £45.2bn as a result of profits of £2.1bn 
generated in the year, after absorbing the impact of notable items. Regulatory capital generated from earnings after absorbing the impact of own 
credit and dividends paid and foreseen increased CET1 capital by £1.2bn. Other significant movements in the year were:

■■ a £3.0bn increase in other qualifying reserves including a £3.7bn increase in the currency translation reserves as US Dollar, Euro and  South African 
Rand strengthened against Sterling; partially offset by a £0.4bn decrease as a result of preference share redemptions and a £0.4bn decrease in 
available for sale reserves

■■ a £0.3bn decrease, net of tax, as a result of movements relating to pensions. There was a £1.0bn decrease in the retirement benefit reserve largely 
due to the UKRF, which is the Group's main pension scheme, moving from a £0.8bn surplus in December 2015 to a £27m deficit in December 
2016. The decrease in reserves was partially offset by the removal of a £0.7bn capital deduction for the UKRF asset in December 2015

■■ a £0.9bn increase in minority interests following the sale of 12.2% of BAGL's issued share capital was partially offset by £0.3bn higher capital 
deductions.

Transitional AT1 capital remained largely flat in the period as redemptions and repurchases of £1.3bn of CRD IV end point non qualifying preference 
shares, tier one notes and reserve capital instruments were offset by the issuance of $1.5bn of end point qualifying AT1 capital instruments.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 205

Risk weighted assets
Risk weighted assets (RWAs) by risk type and business

As at 31 December 
2016

Credit risk Counterparty credit riska,b Market risk
Operational 

risk
Total 

RWAs

Std
£m

IRB
£m

Std
£m

IRB
£m

Settlement 
Risk
£m

CVA
£m

Std
£m

IMA
£m £m £m

Barclays UK 5,592 49,591 47 – – – – – 12,293 67,523
Barclays International 53,201 82,327 13,515 13,706 30 3,581 9,343 9,460 27,538 212,701
Head Officec 9,048 27,122 77 1,157 – 927 482 2,323 12,156 53,292
Barclays Core 67,841 159,040 13,639 14,863 30 4,508 9,825 11,783 51,987 333,516
Barclays Non-Core 4,714 9,945 1,043 6,081 37 2,235 477 2,928 4,673 32,133
Barclays Group 72,555 168,985 14,682 20,944 67 6,743 10,302 14,711 56,660 365,649

As at 31 December 
2015
Barclays UK 6,562 50,763 26 – – – – – 12,174 69,525
Barclays International 45,892 77,275 10,463 11,055 516 3,406 8,373 10,196 27,657 194,833
Head Officec 8,291 20,156 54 538 8 382 399 1,903 8,003 39,734
Barclays Core 60,745 148,194 10,543 11,593 524 3,788 8,772 12,099 47,834 304,092
Barclays Non-Core 8,704 12,797 1,653 9,430 1 7,480 1,714 3,679 8,826 54,284
Barclays Group 69,449 160,991 12,196 21,023 525 11,268 10,486 15,778 56,660 358,376

Movement analysis of risk weighted assets

Risk weighted assets
Credit risk 

£bn

Counterparty 
credit riska,b

£bn
Market risk

£bn

Operational 
risk
£bn

Total 
RWAs

£bn
As at 1 January 2016 230.4 45.0 26.3 56.7 358.4
Book size 0.8 1.2 (0.6) – 1.4
Acquisitions and disposals (6.4) (0.2) – – (6.6)
Book quality (0.5) (0.4) 0.6 – (0.3)
Model updates (2.9) (2.0) (0.3) – (5.2)
Methodology and policy 1.1 (1.2) (1.0) – (1.1)
Foreign exchange movementd 19.0 – – – 19.0
As at 31 December 2016 241.5 42.4 25.0 56.7 365.6

RWAs increased £7.2bn to £365.6bn, driven by:

■■ book size increased RWAs by £1.4bn primarily due to an increase in trading activity in Barclays International and business growth in corporate 
and consumer lending partially offset by securitisation transactions

■■ acquisitions and disposals decreased RWAs by £6.6bn primarily due to the rundown of Non-Core portfolios, including the sale of Portuguese 
and Italian businesses

■■ model updates decreased RWAs by £5.2bn primarily driven by model changes in Barclays UK mortgages
■■ methodology and Policy decreased RWAs by £1.1bn primarily driven by the effect of collateral modelling for mismatched FX collateral on average 

CVA and a new treatment for sovereign exposures partly offset by modelled wholesale recalibration
■■ foreign exchange movements increased RWAs by £19.0bn primarily driven by the appreciation of South African Rand, US Dollar and Euro 

against Sterling.

Notes
a RWAs in relation to default fund contributions are included in counterparty credit risk.
b RWAs in relation to credit valuation adjustment (CVA) are included in counterparty credit risk.
c Includes Africa Banking discontinued operations.
d Foreign exchange movement does not include FX for modelled counterparty risk or modelled market risk.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
206 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – Capital

Leverage ratio and exposures
At 31 December 2016, Barclays' leverage ratio was 4.6% (2015: 4.5%) and the average leverage ratio was 4.3%, which exceeds the transitional 
minimum requirement for Barclays of 3.175% and expected end point minimum requirement of 3.5%.

The impact of the PRA rule modification to allow firms to exclude qualifying central bank claims from the calculation of the leverage exposure 
measure would have resulted in an average leverage ratio of 4.5% and a leverage ratio at 31 December 2016 of 5.0%.

Leverage exposure
As at

31.12.16
£bn

As at
31.12.15

£bn

Accounting assets
Derivative financial instruments 347 328
Cash collateral 67 62
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13 28
Financial assets designated at fair valuea 79 77
Loans and advances and other assets 707 625
Total IFRS assets 1,213 1,120

Regulatory consolidation adjustments (6) (10)

Derivatives adjustments
Derivatives netting (313) (293)
Adjustments to cash collateral (50) (46)
Net written credit protection 12 15
Potential Future Exposure (PFE) on derivatives 136 129
Total derivatives adjustments (215) (195)

Securities financing transactions (SFTs) adjustments 29 16

Regulatory deductions and other adjustments (15) (14)
Weighted off-balance sheet commitments 119 111
Total leverage exposure 1,125 1,028

Fully loaded CET1 capital 45.2 40.7
Fully loaded AT1 capital 6.8 5.4
Fully loaded Tier 1 capital 52.0 46.2

Leverage ratio 4.6% 4.5%

The leverage ratio increased to 4.6% (2015: 4.5%) primarily driven by a £5.8bn increase in fully loaded Tier 1 capital to £52.0bn  
(2015: £46.2bn), partially offset by an increase in the leverage exposure of £97bn to £1,125bn (2015: £1,028bn):

■■ the IFRS asset increase was mainly driven by loans and advances and other assets which increased £82bn to £707bn. The increase was primarily 
due to the appreciation of major currencies against Sterling, an increase in liquidity pool assets, and lending growth in Barclays UK and Barclays 
International. This was partially offset by the rundown and exit of Non-Core assets

■■ SFT adjustments increased by £13bn to £29bn, primarily as a result of a change in treatment of securities pre-positioned for use against undrawn 
central bank lending facilities 

■■ PFE on derivatives increased by £7bn to £136bn primarily driven by the appreciation of major currencies against Sterling, partially offset by 
compression activity, sale of positions and maturity of trades 

■■ weighted off-balance sheet commitments increased by £8bn to £119bn primarily driven by the appreciation of major currencies against Sterling.

The average leverage exposure measure for Q4 2016 was £1,206bn resulting in an average leverage ratio of 4.3%. The CET1 capital held against 
the 0.175% transitional G-SII ALRB was £2bn. The impact of the CCLB is currently nil. 

The difference between the average leverage ratio and the leverage ratio was primarily driven by higher positions in October and November within 
trading portfolio assets, reverse repurchase agreements and settlements balances.

Note
a Included within financial assets designated at fair value are reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value of £63bn (2015: £50bn).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 207

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Analysis of liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that a firm, although 
solvent, either does not have sufficient financial 
resources available to enable it to meet its 
obligations as they fall due, or can secure 
such resources only at excessive cost.

This section details the Group's liquidity risk 
profile and provides information on the way 
the Group manages that risk.

Key metrics

131% LCR
The Group strengthened its liquidity position during the year, 
increasing its surplus to internal and regulatory requirements.

£12bn Term Issuance
The Group maintains access to stable and diverse sources of 
funding across customer deposits and wholesale debt.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
208 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Summary of Contents Page
■■ Liquidity risk overview and summary of performance 209 The risk that the firm, although solvent, either does not have sufficient 

financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they 
fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost. 

This section provides an overview of the Group's liquidity risk.

■■ Liquidity risk stress testing 209
 – Liquidity risk appetite 209
 – Liquidity regulation 210
 – Internal and regulatory stress tests 210

■■ Liquidity pool 211 The liquidity pool is held unencumbered and is not used to support 
payment or clearing requirements. The liquidity pool is intended to offset 
stress outflows, and comprises cash and unencumbered assets. 

 – Composition of the liquidity pool 211
 – Liquidity pool by currency 211
 – Management of the group liquidity pool 211
 – Contingent liability 212

■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 212 The basis for sound liquidity risk management is a solid funding 
structure that reduces the probability of a liquidity stress leading to an 
inability to meet funding obligations as they fall due.

 – Deposit funding 212
 – Behavioural maturity profile 213
 – Wholesale funding 213
 – Term financing 215

■■ Encumbrance 215 Asset encumbrance arises from collateral pledged against secured 
funding and other collateralised obligations. Barclays funds a portion of 
trading portfolio assets and other securities via repurchase agreements 
and other similar borrowing, and pledges a portion of customer loans 
and advances as collateral in securitisation, covered bond and other 
similar secured structures.

 – On-balance sheet 216
 – Off-balance sheet 216
 – Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase 
agreements

218

■■ Credit ratings 219 In addition to monitoring and managing key metrics related to the 
financial strength of the Group, Barclays solicits independent credit 
ratings.

These ratings assess the creditworthiness of the Group, its subsidiaries 
and branches and are based on reviews of a broad range of business and 
financial attributes including risk management processes and 
procedures, capital strength, earnings, funding, asset quality, liquidity, 
accounting and governance.

 – Contractual credit rating downgrade exposure 219

■■ Liquidity management at BAGL Group 220 Liquidity risk is managed separately at BAGL Group due to local 
currency, funding and regulatory requirements.

■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 220 Provides details on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments 
and other assets and liabilities. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 209

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Overview
The Group has a comprehensive Key Risk Control Framework for 
managing the Group's liquidity risk. The Liquidity Framework meets the 
PRA's standards and is designed to ensure the Group maintains liquidity 
resources that are sufficient in amount and quality, and a funding profile 
that is appropriate to meet the liquidity risk appetite. The Liquidity 
Framework is delivered via a combination of policy formation, review 
and governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.

Liquidity risk is managed separately at Barclays Africa Group Limited 
(BAGL) due to local currency and funding requirements. Unless stated 
otherwise, all disclosures in this section exclude BAGL and they are 
reported on a stand-alone basis. Adjusting for local requirements, BAGL 
liquidity risk is managed on a consistent basis to the Group.

This section provides an analysis of the Group's: (i) liquidity risk stress 
testing; (ii) internal and regulatory stress tests; (iii) liquidity pool; 
(iv) funding structure and funding relationships; (v) wholesale funding; 
(vi) term financing; (vii) encumbrance; (viii) repurchase agreements; 
(ix) credit ratings; (x) liquidity management at BAGL; and (xi) 
contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities. 

For further detail on liquidity risk governance and framework see pages 
150 to 157 of the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 report.

Summary of performance in the period
The Group continued to maintain surpluses to its internal and regulatory 
requirements. The liquidity pool increased to £165bn (2015: £145bn), 
primarily driven by the depreciation of GBP against other major 
currencies and net increase in retail and commercial deposits and 
wholesale funding to support business growth. The Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR) was 131% (2015: 133%), equivalent to a surplus of £39bn 
(2015: £37bn). Wholesale funding outstanding excluding repurchase 
agreements was £158bn (2015: £142bn). The increase was driven by the 
prudent management of the liquidity position, holding company 
issuance and depreciation of GBP against other major currencies. The 
Group issued £12.1bn equivalent of capital and senior unsecured debt 
from the holding company of which £8.6bn equivalent and £0.7bn 
equivalent in public and private senior unsecured debt respectively, and 
£2.8bn of capital instruments. In the same period £7.4bn of Barclays 
Bank PLC capital and senior unsecured debt was bought back or called.  

Liquidity risk stress testing
Under the Liquidity Framework, the Group has established a Liquidity 
Risk Appetite (LRA) together with the appropriate limits for the 
management of the liquidity risk. This is the level of liquidity risk the 
Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in 
meeting its regulatory obligations. The key expression of the liquidity 
risk is through internal stress tests. It is measured with reference to the 
liquidity pool compared to anticipated stressed net contractual and 
contingent outflows for each of three short-term stress scenarios.

Liquidity Risk Appetite 
As part of the LRA, the Group runs three primary short-term liquidity 
stress scenarios, aligned to the PRA's prescribed stresses: 
■■ 90-day market-wide stress event
■■ 30-day Barclays-specific stress event 
■■ combined 30-day market-wide and Barclays-specific stress event.

Under normal market conditions, the liquidity pool is managed to be 
at a target of at least 100% of anticipated outflows under each of these 
stress scenarios. The 30-day Barclays-specific stress scenario results 
in the greatest net outflows of each of the liquidity stress tests.
The combined 30-day scenario assumes outflows consistent with a 
firm-specific stress for the first two weeks of the stress period, followed 
by relatively lower outflows consistent with a market-wide stress for the 
remainder of the stress period. 

Barclays also evaluates its long-term LRA, one year stress test based 
on prolonged closure of capital markets.

Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, 
although solvent, either does not have 
sufficient financial resources available to meet 
its obligations as they fall due, or can secure 
such resources only at excessive cost. 
This also results in a firm's inability to meet 
regulatory liquidity requirements. This risk is 
inherent in all banking operations and can be 
affected by a range of Group-specific and 
market-wide events.

All disclosures in this section (pages 209 to 224) are unaudited and exclude BAGL 
unless otherwise stated.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
210 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Key LRA assumptions include:
For the year ended 31 December 2016

Drivers of 
Liquidity Risk LRA Specific Stress – Key Assumptions
Wholesale Secured 
and Unsecured 
Funding Risk

■■ Zero rollover of maturing wholesale unsecured funding
■■ Loss of repo capacity on non-extremely liquid repos at contractual maturity date
■■ Withdrawal of contractual buyback obligations, excess client futures margin, PB client cash and overlifts
■■ Haircuts applied to the market value of marketable assets held in the liquidity buffer

Retail and Corporate 
Funding Risk

■■ Retail and Corporate deposit outflows as counterparties seek to diversify their deposit balances

Intra-day Liquidity 
Risk

■■ Liquidity held against intra-day requirements for the settlement of cash and securities under a stress

Intra-Group Liquidity 
Risk

■■ Liquidity support for material subsidiaries. Surplus liquidity held within certain subsidiaries is not taken as a benefit to the 
wider Group

Cross-Currency 
Liquidity Risk

■■ Currency liquidity cash flows at contractual maturity for physically settled FX forwards and cross currency swaps

Off-Balance Sheet 
Liquidity Risk 

■■ Drawdown on committed facilities based on facility and counterparty type
■■ Collateral outflows due to a 2 notch credit rating downgrade 
■■ Increase in the Group's initial margin requirement across all major exchanges 
■■ Variation margin outflows from collateralised risk positions 
■■ Outflow of collateral owing but not called
■■ Loss of internal sources of funding within the Prime Brokerage synthetics business

Franchise-Viability 
Risk

■■ Liquidity held in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, but are necessary in order to support the 
firm's ongoing franchise (e.g. debt buybacks)

Funding 
Concentration Risk

■■ Liquidity held against largest wholesale funding counterparty refusing to roll

Management Actions ■■ Specifically defined actions that raise liquidity or mitigate cash outflows that would be conducted in a manner so as not 
to increase market volatility, whilst maintaining all core franchises

Liquidity regulation
The Group monitors its position against the CRD IV Delegated Act Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Basel III Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). 

The LCR is designed to promote short-term resilience of a bank's liquidity risk profile by ensuring that it holds sufficient High Quality Liquid Assets to 
survive an acute stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The NSFR has a time horizon of 12 months and has been developed to promote a sustainable 
maturity structure of assets and liabilities.

The CRD IV LCR became effective on 1 October 2015, with a minimum ratio requirement in the UK of 80% as at 31 December 2016; this will increase 
to 90% on 1 January 2017 and then to 100% on 1 January 2018. As of 31 December 2016, the Group reported a CRD IV LCR of 131% (2015: 133%).

In October 2014, the BCBS published a final standard for the NSFR with the minimum requirement to be introduced in January 2018 at 100% on an 
ongoing basis. On 23 November 2016 the European Commission published draft amendments to the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) 
including its proposed implementation of NSFR in the EU. This proposal makes a number of changes from Basel NSFR, particularly in the treatment 
of derivative and secured financing transactions. Barclays is in the process of assessing the impact of these changes on its NSFR ratio, and notes that 
NSFR is not proposed to be a binding regulation in the EU until two years after the European legislation is finalised. We remain above 100% well 
ahead of implementation timelines, based on a conservative interpretation of the Basel rule.

Comparing internal and regulatory liquidity stress tests
The LRA stress scenarios and the CRD IV LCR are all broadly comparable short-term stress scenarios in which the adequacy of defined liquidity 
resources is assessed against contractual and contingent stress outflows. The CRD IV LCR stress tests provide an independent assessment of the 
Group's liquidity risk profile.

Stress Test Barclays LRA CRD IV LCR
Time Horizon 30 to 90 days 30 days
Calculation Liquid assets to net cash outflows Liquid assets to net cash outflows

As at 31 December 2016, the Group held eligible liquid assets in excess of 100% of stress requirements for all three short-term LRA scenarios and the 
CRD IV LCR requirement.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 211

Compliance with internal and regulatory stress tests 

As at 31 December 2016

Barclays' LRA
 (30 day

 Barclays-
specific

 requirement)a, b
£bn

CRD IV 
LCRb
£bn

Eligible liquidity buffer 173 166
Net stress outflows (144) (127)
Surplus 29 39
Liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated net outflows as at 31 December 2016 120% 131%
Liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated net outflows as at 31 December 2015 131% 133%

The Group plans to maintain its surplus to the internal and regulatory stress requirements at an efficient level, while considering risks to market 
funding conditions and its liquidity position. The continuous reassessment of these risks may lead to appropriate actions being taken with respect 
to sizing of the liquidity pool. 

Liquidity pool 
The Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2016 was £165bn (2015: £145bn). During 2016, the month-end liquidity pool ranged from £132bn to 
£175bn (2015: £142bn to £168bn), and the month-end average balance was £153bn (2015: £155bn). The liquidity pool is held unencumbered and is 
not used to support payment or clearing requirements. Such requirements are treated as part of our regular business funding. The liquidity pool is 
intended to offset stress outflows, and comprises the following cash and unencumbered assets. 

Composition of the Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2016

Liquidity 
pool
£bn

Liquidity pool of which CRD IV LCR eligible 2015 
Liquidity 

pool
                 £bn

Cash
£bn

Level 1
£bn

Level 2A
£bn

Cash and deposits with central banksc 103 101 – – 48

Government bondsd

AAA to AA- 34 – 34 –
A+ to A- 3 – 3 –
BBB+ to BBB- 1 – 1 –
Other LCR Ineligible Government bonds 1 – – –
Total government bonds 39 – 38 – 75

Other 
Government Guaranteed Issuers, PSEs and GSEs 12 – 9 3
International Organisations and MDBs 6 – 7 –
Covered bonds 1 – 1 –
Corporate bonds – – – –
Other 4 – – –
Total Other 23 – 17 3 22
Total as at 31 December 2016 165 101 55 3
Total as at 31 December 2015 145 45 87 8

The Group liquidity pool is well diversified by major currencies and the Group monitors LRA stress scenarios for major currencies.

Liquidity pool by currency
USD
£bn

EUR
£bn

GBP
£bn

Other 
£bn

Total
£bn

Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2016 44 36 49 36 165
Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2015 41 33 46 25 145

Management of the Group liquidity pool
The composition of the liquidity pool is subject to limits set by the Board, Treasury Committee and the independent credit risk and market risk 
functions. In addition, the investment of the liquidity pool is monitored for concentration risk by issuer, currency and asset type. Given the 
incremental returns generated by these highly liquid assets, the risk and reward profile is continuously managed. 

The Group manages the liquidity pool on a centralised basis. As at 31 December 2016, 91% of the liquidity pool was located in Barclays Bank PLC 
(2015: 94%) and was available to meet liquidity needs across the Group. The residual liquidity pool is held predominantly within Barclays Capital Inc. 
(BCI). The portion of the liquidity pool outside of Barclays Bank PLC is held against entity-specific stressed outflows and regulatory requirements. 
To the extent the use of this portion of the liquidity pool is restricted due to regulatory requirements, it is assumed to be unavailable to the rest 
of the Group.

Notes
a Of the three stress scenarios monitored as part of the LRA, the 30-day Barclays-specific scenario results in the lowest ratio at 120% (December 2015: 131%).  

This compares to 134% (December 2015: 144%) under the 90-day market-wide scenario, and 144% (December 2015: 133%) under the 30-day combined scenario.
b Includes BAGL.
c Of which over 98% (2015: over 97%) was placed with the Bank of England, US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan and Swiss National Bank.
d Of which over 90% (2015: over 92%) are comprised of UK, US, Japanese, French, German, Danish, Swiss and Dutch securities.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
212 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Contingent liquidity
In addition to the Group liquidity pool, the Group has access to other unencumbered assets which provide a source of contingent liquidity. 
While these are not relied on in the Group's LRA, a portion of these assets may be monetised in a stress to generate liquidity through use as 
collateral for secured funding or through outright sale. 

In either a Barclays-specific or market-wide liquidity stress, liquidity available via market sources could be severely disrupted. In circumstances 
where market liquidity is unavailable or available only at heavily discounted prices, the Group could generate liquidity via central bank facilities. 
The Group maintains a significant amount of collateral pre-positioned at central banks and available to raise funding.

For more detail on the Group's other unencumbered assets see page 215.

Funding structure and funding relationships
The basis for sound liquidity risk management is a solid funding structure that reduces the probability of a liquidity stress leading to an inability to 
meet funding obligations as they fall due. The Group's overall funding strategy is to develop a diversified funding base (geographically, by type and 
by counterparty) and maintain access to a variety of alternative funding sources, to provide protection against unexpected fluctuations, while 
minimising the cost of funding.

Within this, the Group aims to align the sources and uses of funding. As such, retail and commercial customer loans and advances are largely funded 
by customer deposits, with the surplus funding the liquidity pool. Other assets, together with other loans and advances and unencumbered assets, 
are funded by long-term wholesale debt and equity.

The majority of reverse repurchase agreements are matched by repurchase agreements. The liquidity pool is predominantly funded through 
wholesale markets. These funding relationships are summarised below:

Assets
2016

£bn
2015
£bn Liabilities

2016
£bn

2015
£bn

Loans and advances to customersa 326 336 Customer accountsa 374 374
Group liquidity pool 165 145 < 1 Year wholesale funding 70 54

> 1 Year wholesale funding 88 88
Other assets 185 135 Equity and other liabilities 151 104
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lendingb 190 178

Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowingb 190 178

Derivative financial instrumentsb 347 326 Derivative financial instrumentsb 340 322
Total assets 1,213 1,120 Total liabilities 1,213 1,120

Deposit funding
Deposit funding (audited)

Funding of loans and advances to customers
As at 31 December 2016

2016 2015
Loans and

advances to
customers

£bn

Customer
deposits

£bn

Loan to 
deposit ratio

%

Loan to 
deposit ratio

%

Barclays UK 167 189 – –
Barclays International 98 152 – –
Non-Core 19 – – –
Total Barclays UK, Barclays International and Non-Corec 284 341 83% 86%

Barclays International, Head Office and Non-Cored 109 82
Total 393 423 93% 95%

Total Barclays UK, Barclays International and Non-Corec are largely funded by customer deposits. The loan to deposit ratio for these businesses was 
83% (2015: 86%). The customer deposits in excess of loans and advances are primarily used to fund liquidity buffer requirements for these 
businesses. The loan to deposit ratio for the Group was 93% (2015: 95%). 

As at 31 December 2016, £139bn (2015: £129bn) of total customer deposits were insured through the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and other similar schemes. In addition to these customer deposits, there were £4bn (2015: £4bn) of other liabilities insured by governments.

Notes
a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Comprised of reverse repurchase agreements that provide financing to customers collateralised by highly liquid securities on a short-term basis or are used to settle short-term 

inventory positions and repo financing of trading portfolio assets.
c Excluding investment banking businesses.
d Including investment banking businesses.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 213

Although, contractually, current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Group's broad base of customers, 
numerically and by depositor type, helps protect against unexpected fluctuations in balances. Such accounts form a stable funding base for the 
Group's operations and liquidity needs. The Group assesses the behavioural maturity of both customer assets and liabilities to identify structural 
balance sheet funding gaps. Customer behaviour is determined by quantitative modelling combined with qualitative assessment taking into account 
for historical experience, current customer composition, and macroeconomic projections. These behavioural profiles represent our forward looking 
expectation of the run-off profile. The relatively low cash outflow within one year demonstrates that customer funding remains broadly matched 
with customer assets from a behavioural perspective. 

Behavioural maturity profile

Loans and
 advances to

 customers
£bn

Customer 
deposits

£bn

Customer 
funding 

surplus/
(deficit)

£bn

Behavioural maturity profile 
cash outflow/(inflow)

Not more 
than one 

year
£bn

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than five 

years
£bn

More than 
five years

£bn
As at 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 167 189 22 (2) (19) 43
Barclays International 98 152 54 3 17 34
Barclays Non-Core 19 – (19) (1) (6) (12)
Total 284 341 57 – (8) 65

As at 31 December 2015
Barclays UK 166 176 10 (4) (26) 40
Barclays International 88 135 47 11 18 18
Africa (discontinued) 29 29 – 1 – (1)
Barclays Non-Core 17 8 (9) 1 (1) (9)
Total 300 348 48 9 (9) 48

Wholesale funding Group
Wholesale funding relationships are summarised below:

Assets
2016

£bn
2015
£bn Liabilities

2016
£bn

2015
£bn

Trading portfolio assets 33 28 Repurchase agreements 75 70
Reverse repurchase agreements 42 42 – –
Reverse repurchase agreements 35 34 Trading portfolio liabilities 35 34
Derivative financial instruments 347 326 Derivative financial instruments 340 322
Liquidity pool 108 97 Less than 1 year wholesale debt 70 54
Other assetsa 109 103 Greater than 1 year wholesale debt and equity 154 150

Repurchase agreements fund reverse repurchase agreements and trading portfolio assets. Trading portfolio liabilities are settled by the remainder 
of reverse repurchase agreements (see Note 19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities for further detail on netting). 

Derivative liabilities and assets are largely matched. A substantial proportion of balance sheet derivative positions qualify for counterparty netting 
and the remaining portions are largely offset once netted against cash collateral received and paid.

Wholesale debt, along with the surplus of customer deposits to loans and advances to customers, is used to fund the liquidity pool. 
Term wholesale debt and equity largely fund other assets.

Note
a Predominantly available for sale investments, financial assets designated at fair value and loans and advances to banks funded by greater than one year wholesale debt and equity 

and trading portfolio assets partially.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
214 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Composition of wholesale fundinga
The Group maintains access to a variety of sources of wholesale funds in major currencies, including those available from term investors across a 
variety of distribution channels and geographies, money markets, and repo markets. The Group has direct access to US, European and Asian capital 
markets through its global investment banking operations and long-term investors through its clients worldwide, and is an active participant in 
money markets. As a result, wholesale funding is well diversified by product, maturity, geography and major currency.

As at 31 December 2016, the Group's total wholesale funding outstanding (excluding repurchase agreements) was £158bn (2015: £142bn).  
£70bn (2015: £54bn) of wholesale funding matures in less than one year, of which £22bn (2015: £14bn)b relates to term funding. 

As at 31 December 2016, outstanding wholesale funding comprised £26bn (2015: £25bn) of secured funding and £132bn  
(2015: £117bn) of unsecured funding. 

As the Group progresses to a Single Point of Entry resolution model, Barclays continues to issue debt capital and term senior unsecured funding 
from Barclays PLC, the holding company, replacing maturing debt in Barclays Bank PLC.

Maturity profile of wholesale fundingb
<1

month
£bn

1-3 
months

£bn

3-6
 months

£bn

6-12 
months

£bn

<1 
year
£bn

1-2 
years

£bn

2-3 
years

£bn

3-4 
years

£bn

4-5 
years

£bn

>5 
years

£bn
Total

£bn
Barclays PLC
Senior unsecured (Public 
benchmark) – – – – – 0.9 1.6 1.1 4.5 7.9 16.0
Senior unsecured (Privately placed) – – – – – 0.1  –  – 0.2 0.5 0.8
Subordinated liabilities – – – – –  –  – 1.1  – 2.7 3.8
Barclays Bank PLC
Deposits from banks 9.2 4.3 1.7 1.1 16.3 0.2 – 0.3 – – 16.8
Certificates of deposit and 
commercial paper 0.3 5.2 5.6 10.9 22.0 0.7 1.1 0.5 0.5 0.3 25.1
Asset backed commercial paper 3.7 3.1 0.7 – 7.5 – – – – – 7.5
Senior unsecured (Public 
benchmark) 1.7 0.6 1.6 – 3.9 – 2.7 0.7 0.7 1.1 9.1
Senior unsecured (Privately placed)c 0.6 1.5 3.6 3.5 9.2 7.3 5.5 3.2 1.6 10.0 36.8
Covered bonds – 1.8 1.6 1.5 4.9 1.0 1.8 – 1.0 3.7 12.4
Asset backed securities – 0.6 1.0 0.6 2.2 0.7 1.4 0.4 – 0.7 5.4
Subordinated liabilities – – – 1.3 1.3 3.2 0.1 1.0 5.5 8.5 19.6
Otherd 1.1 0.2 0.6 1.1 3.0 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.7 4.5
Total as at 31 December 2016 16.6 17.3 16.4 20.0 70.3 14.3 14.4 8.6 14.1 36.1 157.8
Of which secured 3.7 5.6 3.4 2.3 15.0 1.8 3.2 0.4 1.0 4.4 25.8
Of which unsecured 12.9 11.7 13.0 17.7 55.3 12.5 11.2 8.2 13.1 31.7 132.0
Total as at 31 December 2015 15.8 15.3 8.6 13.8 53.5 16.5 12.6 13.7 8.3 37.3 141.9
Of which secured 4.2 3.9 1.6 0.3 10.0 5.1 2.4 2.8 0.5 4.5 25.3
Of which unsecured 11.6 11.4 7.0 13.5 43.5 11.4 10.2 10.9 7.8 32.8 116.6

Outstanding wholesale funding includes £37.6bn (2015: £35.1bn) of privately placed senior unsecured notes in issue.  
These notes are issued through a variety of distribution channels including intermediaries and private banks. Although not a requirement, 
the liquidity pool exceeded wholesale funding maturing in less than one year by £95bn (2015: £91bn).

Notes
a The composition of wholesale funds comprises the balance sheet reported deposits from banks, financial liabilities at fair value, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities, 

excluding cash collateral and settlement balances and collateral swaps. Included within deposits from banks are £4.5bn of liabilities drawn in the European Central Bank's facilities.
b Term funding maturities comprise public benchmark and privately placed senior unsecured notes, covered bonds/asset-backed securities (ABS) and subordinated debt where the 

original maturity of the instrument was more than 1 year.
c Includes structured notes of £30.8bn, £7.7bn of which matures within one year.
d Primarily comprised of fair value deposits of £3.0bn and secured financing transactions of physical gold of £0.5bn.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 215

Currency composition of wholesale debt
As at 31 December 2016, the proportion of wholesale funding by major currencies was as follows:

Currency composition of wholesale funding
USD

%
EUR

%
GBP

%
Other

%

Deposits from banks 22 44 30 4
Certificates of deposits and commercial paper 44 48 7 1
Asset backed commercial paper 89 8 3 –
Senior unsecured (public benchmark) 51 25 16 8
Senior unsecured (privately placed) 48 25 11 16
Covered bonds/ABS 30 42 28 –
Subordinated liabilities 53 28 19 –
Total as at 31 December 2016 48 32 16 4
Total as at 31 December 2015 38 31 23 8

To manage cross-currency refinancing risk the Group manages foreign exchange cash flow limits, which limit risk at specific maturities. 
The composition of wholesale funding is materially unchanged.

Term financing
The Group issued £12.1bn equivalent of capital and senior unsecured debt from the holding company of which £8.6bn equivalent and £0.7bn 
equivalent in public and private senior unsecured debt respectively, and £2.8bn of capital instruments. In the same period £7.4bn of Barclays Bank 
PLC capital and senior unsecured debt was bought back or called. 

The Group has £21.2bn of term funding maturing in 2017 and £13.2bn in 2018.

The Group expects to continue issuing public wholesale debt in 2017 from Barclays PLC, in order to ensure compliance with new prospective loss 
absorbency requirements and to maintain a stable and diverse funding base by type, currency and distribution channel.

Encumbrance 
Asset encumbrance arises from collateral pledged against secured funding and other collateralised obligations. Barclays funds a portion of 
trading portfolio assets and other securities via repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing, and pledges a portion of customer loans and 
advances as collateral in securitisation, covered bond and other similar secured structures. Barclays monitors the mix of secured and unsecured 
funding sources within the Group's funding plan and seeks to efficiently utilise available collateral to raise secured funding and meet other 
collateral requirements.

Encumbered assets have been defined consistently with the Group's reporting requirements under Article 100 of the Capital Requirements 
Regulation (CRR). Securities and commodities assets are considered encumbered when they have been pledged or used to secure, collateralise or 
credit enhance a transaction which impacts their transferability and free use. This includes external repurchase or other similar agreements with 
market counterparts.

Excluding assets positioned at central banks, as at 31 December 2016, £168bn (2015: £157bn) of the Group's assets were encumbered, primarily due 
to cash collateral posted, firm financing of trading portfolio assets and other securities and funding secured against loans and  
advances to customers. 

Assets may also be encumbered under secured funding arrangements with central banks. In advance of such encumbrance, assets are often 
positioned with central banks to facilitate efficient future draw down. £63bn (2015: £88bn) of on-balance sheet assets were positioned  
at the central banks, consisting of encumbered assets and collateral pre-positioned and available for use in secured financing transactions. 

£277bn (2015: £212bn) of on and off-balance sheet assets not positioned at the central bank were identified as readily available  
and available for use in secured financing transactions. Additionally, they include cash and securities held in the Group liquidity pool as well as 
unencumbered assets which provide a source of contingent liquidity. While these additional assets are not relied upon in the Group's LRA, a portion 
of these assets may be monetised to generate liquidity through use as collateral for secured funding or through outright sale. Loans and advances 
to customers are only classified as readily available if they are already in a form, such that, they can be used to raise funding without further 
management actions. This includes excess collateral already in secured funding vehicles.

£231bn (2015: £208bn) of assets not positioned at the central bank were identified as available as collateral. These assets are not subject 
 to any restrictions on their ability to secure funding, to be offered as collateral, or to be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are 
not immediately available in the normal course of business in their current form. They primarily consist of loans and advances which would be 
suitable for use in secured funding structures but are conservatively classified as not readily available because they are not in transferable form.

Not available as collateral consists of assets that cannot be pledged or used as security for funding due to restrictions that prevent their pledge or 
use as security for funding in the normal course of business.

Derivatives and reverse repo assets relate specifically to derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending. These are 
shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged. However, these assets can give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which 
are held off-balance sheet, and can be used to raise secured funding or meet additional funding requirements.

In addition, £406bn (2015: £265bn) of the total £466bn (2015: £306bn) securities accepted as collateral, and held off-balance  
sheet, were on-pledged, the significant majority of which related to matched-book activity where reverse repurchase agreements are matched by 
repurchase agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder relates primarily to reverse repurchases used to settle trading portfolio 
liabilities as well as collateral posted against derivatives margin requirements.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
216 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2016

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central banks 
and unencumbered assets)

As a result
of covered

 bonds
£bn

As a 
result of

securitis-
ations

£bn
Other

£bn
Total

£bn

Assets
positioned

at the
central
banksb

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central banks

Total
£bn

Readily
available

assets
£bn

Available
as

collateral
£bn

Not
available

as
collateral

£bn

Derivatives
and

Reverse
repos

£bn

Cash and balances at central banks 102.4 – – – – – 102.4 – – – 102.4
Trading portfolio assets 80.2 – – 51.2 51.2 – 29.0 – – – 29.0
Financial assets at fair value 78.6 – – 3.2 3.2 – 1.5 10.7 – 63.2 75.4
Derivative financial instruments 346.6 – – – – – – – – 346.6 346.6
Loans and advances – banksa 20.2 – – – – – 10.1 9.0 1.1 – 20.2
Loans and advances – customersa 325.7 16.5 6.2 8.0 30.7 63.0 23.8 208.2 – – 295.0
Cash collateral 68.8 – – 68.8 68.8 – – – – – –
Settlement balances 21.3 – – – – – – – 21.3 – 21.3
Financial investments 63.3 – – 13.6 13.6 – 49.3 0.4 – – 49.7
Reverse repurchase agreements 13.5 – – – – – – – – 13.5 13.5
Non-current assets held for sale 6.4 – – – – – 1.2 3.1 2.1 – 6.4
Other financial assets 21.0 – – – – – – – 21.0 – 21.0
Total on-balance sheet 1,148.0 16.5 6.2 144.8 167.5 63.0 217.3 231.4 45.5 423.3 980.5

Off-balance sheet

Collateral
 received

£bn

Collateral
 received
of which

on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available

 assets
£bn

Available
 as

 collateral
£bn

Not
 available

as 
collateral

£bn

Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 466.2 405.5 59.7 – 1.0
Total unencumbered collateral – – 277.0 231.4 46.5

Notes
a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in  

Note 40 to the financial statements page 359.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 217

Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central banks 
and unencumbered assets)

As a result 
of covered 

bonds
£bn

As a 
result of 

securitis-
ations

£bn
Other

£bn
Total
£bn

Assets 
positioned 

at the 
central 
banksb

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central banks

Total
£bn

Readily 
available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not 
available 

as 
collateral

£bn

Derivatives 
and 

Reverse 
repos

£bn

Cash and balances at central banks 47.9  –  –  –  –  – 47.9  –  –  – 47.9
Trading portfolio assets 74.8  –  – 49.1 49.1  – 25.7  –  –  – 25.7
Financial assets at fair value 72.5  –  – 2.5 2.5  – 3.2 17.7 1.3 47.8 70.0
Derivative financial instruments 325.5  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 325.5 325.5
Loans and advances – banksa 19.6  –  –  –  –  – 7.9 10.2 1.5  – 19.6
Loans and advances – customersa 307.3 16.4 5.9 8.0 30.3 86.4 14.8 175.8  –  – 277.0
Cash collateral 62.6  –  – 62.6 62.6  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Settlement balances 20.4  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 20.4  – 20.4
Financial investments 87.0  –  – 12.2 12.2  – 72.2 1.0 1.6  – 74.8
Reverse repurchase agreements 28.2  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 28.2 28.2
Non-current assets held for sale 7.3  –  –  –  – 1.9 1.2 3.2 1.0  – 7.3
Other Financial Assets 19.9  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 19.9  – 19.9
Total on-balance sheet 1,073.0 16.4 5.9 134.4 156.7 88.3 172.9 207.9 45.7 401.5 916.3

Off-balance sheet

Collateral
 received

£bn

Collateral
 received 
of which 

on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not 
available 

as 
collateral

£bn

Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 305.9 265.4 39.0  – 1.5
Total unencumbered collateral – – 211.9 207.9 47.2

Notes
a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in  

Note 40 to the financial statements page 359.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
218 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements
Barclays enters into repurchase and other similar secured borrowing agreements to finance its trading portfolio assets. The majority of reverse 
repurchase agreements are matched by offsetting repurchase agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder are used to settle 
trading portfolio liabilities.

Due to the high quality of collateral provided against secured financing transactions, the liquidity risk associated with this activity is significantly 
lower than unsecured financing transactions. Nonetheless, Barclays manages to gross and net secured mismatch limits to limit refinancing risk under 
a severe stress scenario and a portion of the Group's liquidity pool is held against stress outflows on these positions. The Group secured mismatch 
limits are calibrated based on market capacity, liquidity characteristics of the collateral and risk appetite.

The cash value of repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions will typically differ from the market value of the collateral against which these 
transactions are secured by an amount referred to as a haircut (or over-collateralisation). Typical haircut levels vary depending on the quality of the 
collateral that underlies these transactions. For transactions secured against extremely liquid fixed income collateral, lenders demand relatively small 
haircuts (typically ranging from 0-2%). For transactions secured against less liquid collateral, haircuts vary by asset class (typically ranging from 
5-10% for corporate bonds and other less liquid collateral).

As at 31 December 2016, the significant majority of repurchase activity related to matched-book activity. The Group may face refinancing risk on the 
net maturity mismatch for matched-book activity. 

Net matched-book activitya,b

Negative number represents the cash value of the net repurchase agreement (net liability)

Less than
one month

£bn

One month
to three
months

£bn

Over three
months

£bn
As at 31 December 2016
Extremely liquid Fixed Incomec (21.8) 11.6 10.7
Liquid Fixed Income (0.4) 0.8 (0.7)
Equities 6.1 (0.5) (9.6)
Less liquid Fixed Income 0.6 (0.2) (1.3)
Total (15.5) 11.7 (0.9)
As at 31 December 2015
Extremely liquid Fixed Income (12.9) 7.3 5.6
Liquid Fixed Income 0.3 0.6 (0.9)
Equities 7.0 (1.5) (5.5)
Less liquid Fixed Income 1.6 (0.4) (1.2)
Total (4.0) 6.0 (2.0)

The residual repurchase agreement activity is the firm-financing component and reflects Barclays funding of a portion of its trading portfolio 
assets. The primary risk related to firm-financing activity is the inability to roll-over transactions as they mature. However, 44% (2015: 50%) of 
firm financing activity was secured against extremely liquid fixed income assets.

Firm financing repurchase agreementsa,b

Less than 
one month

£bn

One month 
to three 
months

£bn

Over three
 months

£bn
Total

£bn
As at 31st December 2016
Extremely liquid Fixed Incomec 28.3 7.1 1.1 36.5
Liquid Fixed Income 2.8 0.8 1.2 4.8
Highly liquid 13.2 8.9 14.0 36.1
Less liquid 1.9 0.8 2.6 5.3
Total 46.2 17.6 18.9 82.7
As at 31st December 2015
Extremely liquid Fixed Income 28.8 8.3 0.3 37.4
Liquid Fixed Income 2.0 0.6 1.1 3.7
Highly liquid 10.9 6.3 10.2 27.4
Less liquid 2.7 1.1 1.9 5.7
Total 44.4 16.3 13.5 74.2

Notes
a Includes collateral swaps.
b Includes financing positions for prime brokerage clients which are reported as customer payables/receivables on balance sheet. 
c Extremely liquid fixed income is defined as very highly rated sovereigns and agencies, typically rated AA+ or better. It excludes liquid fixed income, equities and other less liquid collateral.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 219

Credit ratings
In addition to monitoring and managing key metrics related to the financial strength of the Group, Barclays solicits independent credit ratings by 
Standard & Poor's (S&P), Moody's and Fitch, as well as Rating and Investment Information (R&I). These ratings assess the creditworthiness of the 
Group, its subsidiaries and branches and are based on reviews of a broad range of business and financial attributes including risk management 
processes and procedures, capital strength, earnings, funding, asset quality, liquidity, accounting and governance.

Credit ratings
As at 31 December 2016 Standard & Poor's Moody's Fitch
Barclays Bank PLC
Long-term A- (Negative) A1 (Negative) A (Stable)
Short-term A-2 P-1 F1
Stand-alone ratinga bbb+ Baa2 a
Barclays PLC
Long-term BBB (Negative) Baa2 (Negative) A (Stable)
Short-term A-2 P-3 F1

During the year, Barclays' ratings outlooks for Moody's and S&P were changed to Negative from Stable following the outcome of the EU referendum 
in June 2016. The rating actions were part of a wider set of actions which saw the two agencies place several UK banks on negative outlooks whilst 
affirming the ratings. The ratings continue to carry a stable outlook with Fitch.

In December 2016, Moody's upgraded senior long-term ratings for both Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC by one notch reflecting the continued 
build-up of loss absorbing capacity at Barclays PLC which would provide additional protection for Barclays Bank PLC's depositors and senior 
unsecured creditors, and Barclays PLC's senior unsecured creditors in a failure scenario. The negative outlooks assigned in June remained in place 
as the rating agency's assessment of Barclays' stand-alone credit strength was unaffected by the rating action.

S&P and Fitch affirmed Barclays' ratings in July and December 2016 respectively as part of their periodic reviews. 

Barclays also solicits issuer ratings from R&I for local issuance purposes in Japan and the ratings of A- for Barclays PLC and A for Barclays Bank PLC 
were affirmed in July 2016 with stable outlooks. 

Contractual credit rating downgrade exposure (incremental cash outflow)
Incremental cash outflow
One-notch 

downgrade
£bn

Two-notch 
downgrade

£bn
As at 31 December 2016
Securitisation derivatives (2) (1)
Contingent liabilities – –
Derivatives margining (1) –
Liquidity facilities (1) –
Total contractual funding or margin requirements (4) (1)

As at 31 December 2015
Securitisation derivatives (2) (1)
Contingent liabilities (1) –
Derivatives margining – –
Liquidity facilities (1) (1)
Total contractual funding or margin requirements (4) (2)

Note
a Refers to Standard & Poor's Stand-Alone Credit Profile (SACP), Moody's Baseline Credit Assessment (BCA) and Fitch's Viability Rating (VR).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
220 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Liquidity management at BAGL Group (audited)
Liquidity risk is managed separately at BAGL Group due to local currency, funding and regulatory requirements.

In addition to the Group liquidity pool, as at 31 December 2016, BAGL Group held £10.6bn (2015: £6.0bn) of liquidity pool assets against BAGL specific 
anticipated stressed outflows. The liquidity pool consists of central bank deposits, government bonds, treasury bills and notes, and coins. Absa Bank 
successfully applied for a Committed Liquidity Facility from the South African Reserve Bank, which is included in the liquidity pool from January 2016.

The BAGL loan to deposit ratio as at 31 December 2016 was 107% (2015: 102%). 

Additional information on liquidity management at BAGL can be found in the Barclays Africa Group Annual Report.

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities. Derivatives (other than those 
designated in a hedging relationship) and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the ‘on demand' column at their fair value. Liquidity 
risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will 
frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value. Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their 
contractual maturity.

Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in other assets 
and other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them; any request for funds from creditors would be met by 
simultaneously liquidating or transferring the related investment.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 221

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (including BAGL) (audited)

As at  
31 December 2016

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months
 but not 

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months
but not 

more
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine
months
but not 

more
than one 

year
£m

Over one
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
Assets
Cash and balances 
at central banks 102,031 322 – – – – – – – – 102,353
Items in the course 
of collection from 
other banks 1,467 – – – – – – – – – 1,467
Trading portfolio 
assets 80,240 – – – – – – – – – 80,240
Financial assets 
designated at 
fair value 15,558 43,270 5,518 2,376 2,081 686 90 129 771 8,129 78,608
Derivative financial 
instruments 345,625 5 400 5 2 14 168 175 123 109 346,626
Loans and advances 
to banks 4,858 34,346 2,753 480 133 412 236 20 13 – 43,251
Loans and advances 
to customers 26,929 85,993 7,522 6,310 8,245 29,326 25,602 44,776 48,233 109,848 392,784
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 7,043 3,678 892 144 905 792 – – – – 13,454
Available for sale 
financial investments 40 1,015 3,064 741 2,666 10,127 9,031 15,148 12,768 8,717 63,317
Other financial assets – 1,128 – – – 77 – – – – 1,205
Total financial assets 583,791 169,757 20,149 10,056 14,032 41,434 35,127 60,248 61,908 126,803 1,123,305
Other assetsa 89,821
Total assets 1,213,126
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 5,906 39,610 1,120 672 351 193 13 328 21 – 48,214
Items in the course 
of collection due to 
other banks 636 – – – – – – – – – 636
Customer accounts 317,963 86,081 5,305 3,023 4,528 2,836 1,262 1,043 441 696 423,178
Repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured 
borrowing 5,480 9,235 1,934 917 1,326 311 – 83 474 – 19,760
Trading portfolio 
liabilities 34,687 – – – – – – – – – 34,687
Financial liabilities 
designated at 
fair value 15,285 41,583 3,970 4,112 1,827 7,540 5,762 5,773 3,588 6,591 96,031
Derivative financial 
instruments 339,646 4 – – 2 10 34 46 75 670 340,487
Debt securities in issue 27 16,731 11,713 5,902 6,867 3,166 8,069 9,186 10,152 4,119 75,932
Subordinated liabilities – 8 – – 1,317 3,230 56 7,487 6,575 4,710 23,383
Other financial 
liabilities – 3,198 – – – 1,189 – – – – 4,387
Total financial 
liabilities 719,630 196,450 24,042 14,626 16,218 18,475 15,196 23,946 21,326 16,786 1,066,695
Other liabilitiesa 75,066
Total liabilities 1,141,761
Cumulative liquidity 
gap (135,839) (162,532) (166,425) (170,995) (173,181) (150,222) (130,291) (93,989) (53,407) 56,610 71,365

Note
a As at 31 December 2016, other assets includes balances of £71,454m (2015: £7,364m) and other liabilities includes balances of £65,292m (2015: £5,997m)  

relating to amounts held for sale. Please refer to Note 44 for details.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
222 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (including BAGL) (audited)

As at 
31 December 2015

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months
 but not 

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months
but not 

more
than nine 

months
£m

Over nine
months
but not 

more
than one 

year
£m

Over one
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m

Assets
Cash and balances 
at central banks 49,580 131 – – – – – – – – 49,711
Items in the course 
of collection from 
other banks 631 380 – – – – – – – – 1,011
Trading portfolio assets 77,348 – – – – – – – – – 77,348
Financial assets 
designated at fair valuea 30,667 21,966 1,722 1,372 583 1,021 587 424 867 16,172 75,381
Derivative financial 
instruments 326,772 28 3 1 53 328 61 257 147 59 327,709
Loans and advances 
to banks 5,354 31,539 1,954 366 468 588 991 43 12 34 41,349
Loans and advances 
to customers 29,117 76,337 13,935 7,084 12,332 27,616 27,318 48,707 50,737 106,034 399,217
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lendinga 12,171 12,089 3,296 292 205 74 35 1 24 – 28,187
Available for sale 
financial investments 467 2,396 1,792 4,936 2,088 11,537 14,659 17,898 21,445 13,049 90,267
Other financial assets – 1,304 – – – 100 – – – – 1,404
Total financial assets 532,107 146,170 22,702 14,051 15,729 41,264 43,651 67,330 73,232 135,348 1,091,584
Other assets – – – – – – – – – – 28,428
Total assets – – – – – – – – – – 1,120,012
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 5,717 38,720 1,355 540 335 97 9 67 236 4 47,080
Items in the course 
of collection due to 
other banks 1,013 – – – – – – – – – 1,013
Customer accounts 312,921 80,114 7,605 4,253 5,304 2,845 912 1,654 622 2,012 418,242
Repurchase 
agreements and 
other similar secured 
borrowinga 5,729 11,683 3,479 1,975 876 843 52 – 398 – 25,035
Trading portfolio 
liabilities 33,967 – – – – – – – – – 33,967
Financial liabilities 
designated at fair valuea 20,051 32,453 3,152 3,470 2,317 6,093 5,458 7,446 4,139 5,533 90,112
Derivative financial 
instruments 323,786 80 92 49 49 42 13 57 70 14 324,252
Debt securities in issue 50 14,270 5,615 4,322 4,469 10,164 4,797 13,037 10,028 2,398 69,150
Subordinated liabilities 2 – – 9 28 1,254 2,994 2,194 8,741 6,245 21,467
Other financial liabilities – 2,685 – – – 1,075 – – – – 3,760
Total financial 
liabilities 703,236 180,005 21,298 14,618 13,378 22,413 14,235 24,455 24,234 16,206 1,034,078
Other liabilities – – – – – – – – – – 20,070
Total liabilities – – – – – – – – – – 1,054,148
Cumulative liquidity 
gap (171,129) (204,964) (203,560) (204,127) (201,776) (182,925) (153,509) (110,634) (61,636) 57,506 65,864

Expected maturity dates do not differ significantly from the contract dates, except for:
■■ trading portfolio assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Group's trading 

strategies;
■■ retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis. In practice, these 

instruments form a stable base for the Group's operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers – both numerically and by 
depositor type (see Behavioural maturity profile on page 213; and

■■ financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities.

Note
a The On demand and Not more than three months categories for 2015 have been adjusted by £37bn for financial assets and £25bn for financial liabilities to better reflect 

the contractual maturity of both Reverse repurchase agreements and Repurchase agreements measured at amortised cost and fair value.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 223

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis (audited)
The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet 
date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities (i.e. nominal values).

The balances in the below table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on 
an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.

Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.

Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis 
as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities – undiscounteda (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months but

not more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months but

not more
than one 

year
£m

Over one
year but 

not more 
than three 

years
£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2016
Deposits from banks 5,906 39,617 1,122 1,025 207 328 21 – 48,226
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 636 – – – – – – – 636
Customer accounts 317,963 86,101 5,325 7,565 4,266 1,120 1,403 1,013 424,756
Repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 5,480 9,249 1,939 2,253 312 83 474 – 19,790
Trading portfolio liabilities 34,687 – – – – – – – 34,687
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value 15,285 41,599 3,986 5,979 13,445 5,899 3,900 8,443 98,536
Derivative financial instruments 339,646 4 – 2 44 48 84 1,086 340,914
Debt securities in issue 27 17,126 11,894 13,285 12,915 10,505 12,282 6,054 84,088
Subordinated liabilities – 398 680 3,117 7,089 9,324 7,842 4,866 33,316
Other financial liabilities – 3,198 – – 1,189 – – – 4,387
Total financial liabilities 719,630 197,292 24,946 33,226 39,467 27,307 26,006 21,462 1,089,336

As at 31 December 2015
Deposits from banks 5,717 38,721 1,357 877 108 70 239 10 47,099
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 1,013 – – – – – – – 1,013
Customer accounts 312,921 80,142 7,640 9,655 3,858 1,854 744 3,087 419,901
Repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lendingb 5,729 11,686 3,482 2,853 898 – 491 – 25,139
Trading portfolio liabilities 33,967 – – – – – – – 33,967
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair valueb 20,051 32,470 3,165 5,830 11,851 7,840 4,690 8,694 94,591
Derivative financial instruments 323,786 81 94 102 57 59 80 16 324,275
Debt securities in issue 50 14,352 5,845 9,277 16,777 14,175 11,276 4,547 76,299
Subordinated liabilities 2 253 403 344 6,057 3,737 9,969 6,313 27,078
Other financial liabilities – 2,685 – – 1,075 – – – 3,760
Total financial liabilities 703,236 180,390 21,986 28,938 40,681 27,735 27,489 22,667 1,053,122



Note
a Financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis for 2016 exclude BAGL balances now held for sale but are included for 2015.
b The On demand and Not more than three months categories for 2015 have been adjusted by £25bn for financial liabilities to better reflect the contractual maturity  

of Repurchase agreements measured at amortised cost and fair value.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
224 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Funding risk – liquidity

Maturity of off-balance sheet commitments received and given (audited)
The table below presents the maturity split of the Group's off-balance sheet commitments received and given at the balance sheet date. The amounts 
disclosed in the table are the undiscounted cash flows (i.e. nominal values) on the basis of earliest opportunity at which they are available.

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months
but not

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months
but not

more
than nine

months
£m

Over nine
months
but not

more than
one year

£m

Over one
year but

not more
than two

years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2016
Guarantees, letters of credit 
and credit insurance 6,044 18 1 410 2 23 1 3 – – 6,502
Forward starting repurchase 
agreements 102 246 – 1 – – 18 – – – 367
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments receiveda 6,146 264 1 411 2 23 19 3 – – 6,869

As at 31 December 2015
Guarantees, letters of credit 
and credit insurance 6,329 138 4 5 32 84 12 97 4 17 6,722
Forward starting repurchase 
agreements – 392 – 73 – – – – – – 465
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments receiveda 6,329 530 4 78 32 84 12 97 4 17 7,187

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months
but not

more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months
but not

more
than nine

months
£m

Over nine
months
but not

more than
one year

£m

Over one
year but

not more
than two

years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2016
Contingent liabilities 17,111 425 845 233 285 355 187 88 259 151 19,939
Documentary credits and other 
short-term trade related transactions 987 10 8 – – – – – – –   1,005
Forward Starting reverse repurchase 
agreements – 24 – – – – – – – –   24
Standby facilities, credit lines and 
other commitments 300,043 455 415 604 818 55 47 150 – 70  302,657
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments givena 318,141 914 1,268 837 1,103 410 234 238 259 221  323,625

As at 31 December 2015
Contingent liabilities 17,421 933 493 140 590 423 158 161 164 138 20,621
Documentary credits and other 
short-term trade related transactions 617 30 10  – 61 119  – 8  –  – 845
Forward Starting reverse repurchase 
agreements  – 93  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 93
Standby facilities, credit lines and 
other commitments 274,020 1,152 1,564 1,116 1,071 873 554 906 78 35 281,369
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments givena 292,058 2,208 2,067 1,256 1,722 1,415 712 1,075 242 173 302,928

Note
a Amounts for 2016 exclude BAGL balances now held for sale but are included for 2015.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 225

Risk review
Risk performance
Operational risk

Analysis of operational risk 
This section provides an analysis of the Group's 
operational risk profile, including events which 
have had a significant impact in 2016.

Key metrics
A small reduction in the number of recorded incidents 
occurring during the period

91% 
of the Group's net reportable operational risk events had  
a loss value of £50,000 or less

65%
of events by number are due to external fraud

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
226 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Operational risk

Overview
Operational risks are inherent in the Group's business activities and 
it is not always cost effective or possible to attempt to eliminate all 
operational risks. The operational risk management framework is 
therefore focused on ensuring operational risks are identified, assessed 
and mitigated within the Group's approved risk appetite. More material 
losses are less frequent and the Group seeks to reduce the likelihood of 
these in accordance with its risk appetite.

The Operational principal risk comprises the following risks: financial 
reporting, fraud, information, payments process, people, premises and 
security, supplier, tax, technology (including cyber) and transaction 
operations. In 2016 legal risk and financial crime risk were managed as 
part of operational risk.

For definitions of these risks see page 157. In order to ensure complete 
coverage of the potential adverse impacts on the Group arising from 
operational risk, the operational risk taxonomy extends beyond the operational 
risks listed above to cover areas included within conduct and legal risk.

This section provides an analysis of the Group's operational risk profile, 
including events, those which are above the Bank's reportable threshold, 
which have had a financial impact in 2016.

For more information on conduct risk events please see page 228. 

Summary of performance in the period
During 2016, total operational risk lossesa decreased to £225.9m 
(2015: £283.5m) with a 4% reduction in the number of recorded events 
compared to prior year. The loss for the year was primarily driven by 
a limited number of events in execution, delivery and process 
management categories and external fraud.

Operational risk profile
Within operational risk, a high proportion of risk events have a low 
associated financial cost and a very small proportion of operational risk 
events will have a material impact on the financial results of the Group. 
In 2016, 90.8% of the Group's net reportable operational risk events had 
a value of £50,000 or less (2015: 88.1%) and accounted for 23.2% 
(2015: 14.5%) of the Group's total net loss impact. 

The analysis below presents the Group's operational risk events by 
Basel event category:

■■ Execution, delivery and process management impacts increased to 
£124.4m (2015: £111.8m) and accounted for 55.0% (2015: 39.4%) of 
overall operational risk losses. The events in this category are typical of 
the banking industry as a whole where high volumes of transactions 
are processed on a daily basis. The increases in impacts were largely 
driven by limited number of events with higher loss values.

■■ External fraud (65.2%) is the category with the highest frequency 
of events where high volume, low value events are also consistent 
with industry experience, driven by debit and credit card fraud. This 
accounted for 25.8% of overall operational risk losses in the year from 
22.2% last year. 

The Group's operational risk profile is informed by bottom-up risk 
assessments undertaken by each business unit and top-down 
qualitative review from the operational risk management for each risk 
type. External Fraud and technology are highlighted as key operational 
risk exposures. The operational risk profile is also informed by a number 
of risk themes: change, resilience and cyber security. These represent 
material risk to the bank but have scope which sits across multiple risk 
types, and therefore require a risk management approach which is 
integrated within relevant risk and control frameworks. 

Investment continues to be made in new and enhanced fraud prevention 
systems and tools to combat the increasing level of fraud attempts being 
made and to minimise any disruption to genuine transactions. Fraud 
remains an industry-wide threat and the Bank continues to work closely 
with external partners on various prevention initiatives. Technology, 
resilience and cyber security risks evolve rapidly so the Bank maintains 
continued focus and investment in our control environment to manage 
these risks, and actively partners with peers and relevant organisations 
to understand and disrupt threats originating outside the Bank.

For further information see Operational Risk Management section on 
pages 158 to 161.

Operational risk events by risk category Operational risk events by risk category 
% of total risk events by count % of total risk events by value

Operational risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss to the 
firm from inadequate or failed processes or 
systems, human factors or due to external 
events (for example fraud) where the root 
cause is not due to credit or market risks

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Note 
a The data disclosed include operational risk losses for reportable events (excluding Africa) having impact of > £10,000 and exclude events that are conduct risk, 

aggregate and boundary events. A boundary event is an operational risk event that results in a credit risk impact. Legal risk events are also included. Due to the nature of 
risk events that keep evolving, prior year losses are updated.

2.0

2.4

0.2

0.1

0.4

0.8

0.3

0.7

31.8

26.3

Business disruption and 
system failures

Clients, products and 
business practices

Damage to physical assets

Employment practices and 
workplace safety

Execution, delivery and 
process management

2016

2015

0.2

0.4

65.2

69.4

External fraud

Internal fraud

9.3

5.7

5.3

25.6

0.8

1.5

3.4

2.2

55.0

39.4

Business disruption and 
system failures

Clients, products and 
business practices

Damage to physical assets

Employment practices and 
workplace safety

Execution, delivery and 
process management

2016

2015

0.3

3.4

25.8

22.2

External fraud

Internal fraud

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 227

Risk review
Risk performance
Conduct risk

Analysis of conduct risk 
This section details Barclays' conduct risk 
profile and provides information on key 
2016 risk events and risk mitigation actions 
Barclays has taken.

Key metrics

5.4/10
Balanced Scorecard 
The Conduct Reputation Balanced Scorecard Measure has 
been sustained mainly by our focus on:

■■ Operating openly and transparently 
■■ Having high quality products and services
■■ Delivering value for money for customers and clients

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
228 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Risk performance
Conduct risk

Conduct Risk
Barclays strives to create and maintain mutually beneficial long-term 
relationships with our customers and clients. This means taking 
personal accountability for understanding their needs and providing 
them with products and services that meet those needs appropriately 
and help them manage their financial affairs.

As a transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank, Barclays 
also plays a critical role in promoting fair, open and transparent markets, 
as well as fostering shared growth for all. This means abiding by 
standards that in many cases are higher than those set by the laws 
and regulations that apply to our business. 

Summary of performance in the period
In 2016, Barclays remained focused on the continuous improvements 
being made to manage risk effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing 
governance and management information to help ensure forward-
looking risks are identified at earlier stages. 

The cornerstone of our efforts is the Strengthening Personal 
Accountability programme, which is designed to strengthen our culture 
and embed our values throughout the organisation. The programme 
includes implementation of the UK Senior Manager, Certification and 
Conduct Rules, in addition to similar regulatory requirements and 
expectations in other jurisdictions.

The Group introduced dashboards on conduct, culture, complaints 
and citizenship to help the Board and senior management oversee 
and measure change across the organisation and take action where 
necessary to address issues and encourage progress. The dashboard 
data reflects a downward trend in conduct issues and complaints 
alongside an upward trend in confidence with respect to speaking 
up about potential conduct risks and issues. 

Barclays proactively undertook ‘Lessons Learned' assessments on issues 
identified in enforcement matters across the industry, including the use 
of performance metrics and formulaic incentives in remuneration and 
performance management. The Group also enhanced the role and 
impact of conduct issues in the remuneration process at both the 
individual and business level. 

Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and 
market impacts of strategic change and structural reform. As part of the 
2016 Medium-Term Planning Process, material conduct risks associated 
with strategic and financial plans were assessed. Divestment of 
Non-Core assets and businesses remains subject to a governance 
framework that considers the impacts on customer and client choice, 
market access, liquidity and other conduct risks. 

The Group also continually assesses the impact of economic and 
geopolitical events on customers, clients and markets. In anticipation of 
the EU Referendum, Barclays successfully applied incident management 
techniques to prepare for and respond to customer and client needs and 
provide market liquidity. 

Throughout 2016 conduct risks were raised by businesses for 
consideration by the Board Reputation Committee. The Board 
Reputation Committee reviewed the risks raised and whether 
management's proposed actions were appropriate to manage the risks 
effectively. In addition to structural reform, strategic change, the EU 
Referendum and lessons learned assessments, the Board Reputation 

Committee reviewed issues related to data security, cyber risk and 
technology resilience. 

While there has been significant progress, a need for continued focus 
remains. Barclays must drive cultural change through all levels of the 
organisation and evidence consistent consideration of conduct risks in 
long-term, medium-term and day-to-day strategic decisions. The Group 
must continue to refine its conduct governance structure, particularly 
with respect to forward-looking management information to drive 
proactive decision making and address issues that persist around the 
general control environment and infrastructure. 

The Group continued to incur significant costs in relation to litigation 
and conduct matters, please refer to Note 29 Legal, competition 
and regulatory matters and Note 27 Provisions for further detail. 
Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as fines and 
settlements. Resolution of these matters remains a necessary and 
important part of delivering the Group's strategy and an ongoing 
commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct. 

Reputation Risk has been managed as a Key Risk under Conduct Risk, 
prior to being re-designated as a Principal Risk with effect from 2017. 
Barclays' association with sensitive sectors is often an area of concern 
for stakeholders and the following topics were of particular interest 
during the year:

■■ Climate change and the management of climate risks is an 
increasingly important issue for the banking sector. There has been 
an increase in the level of interest in our response to climate change 
from a number of different stakeholder groups, largely driven by 
the ratification of COP21 requirements and publication of draft 
recommendations by the Financial Stability Board's Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures for annual reports. We are 
undertaking a review of our global energy sector client portfolio, 
in order to develop a strategic approach that is sustainable in the 
long term. We expect credit appetite to fossil fuels more broadly to 
decrease over time due to regulatory requirements, political appetite 
and moves towards development of cleaner energy sources, with 
particular short-term focus on coal. In the meantime, we are actively 
pursuing opportunities in the green energy and renewable sectors. 
Please refer to home.barclays/citizenship/our-reporting.html for 
further information.

■■ Supporting the manufacture and export of military and riot control 
goods and services is a reputation risk for the financial services sector. 
Political and public concern in particular relates to the use of weapons 
against civilians in conflict situations and to support unjustified 
external aggression. Our Defence Policy mandates our relationship 
with clients in this sector and includes a number of restrictions 
regarding client activities. For example, it is our policy not to finance 
trade in, or manufacture of, nuclear, chemical, biological or other 
weapons of mass destruction. A formal governance structure is in 
place to review high risk defence relationships and trade transactions 
on a case by case basis, taking into account the client, types of goods, 
end user and country risk.

■■ The banking sector has come under increased scrutiny for its 
perceived indirect involvement in human rights abuses committed by 
clients and customers. Barclays' Group Statement on Human Rights 
outlines how we manage our impacts across four key areas: 
employees, local communities, suppliers and clients/customers, 
taking into account the UN Framework and Guiding Principles on 
business and human rights and other internationally recognised 
human rights standards. The UK Modern Slavery Act which came into 
force in October 2015 has helped raise awareness of the role business 
plays in managing human rights impacts. We are committed to 
combatting the risk of modern slavery or human trafficking in our 
supply chain or in any part of our business and Barclays Group 
Statement on Modern Slavery is available on home.barclays/content/
dam/barclayspublic/docs/Citizenship/Policy-Positions/MSA2016.pdf

Reputation Risk may also arise as a result of issues and incidents 
relevant to other Principal Risks, in particular other non-financial risks 
e.g. Conduct or Operational Risk.

Conduct risk
Conduct risk is the risk of detriment to 
customers, clients, market integrity, competition 
or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of 
financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent conduct

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 229

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
 

Supervision of the Group
The Group's operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and 
associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations 
that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial 
services business. These apply to business operations, impact financial 
returns and include reserve and reporting requirements and prudential 
and conduct of business regulations. These requirements are set by the 
relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that authorise, regulate 
and supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The 
requirements generally reflect global standards developed by, amongst 
others, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and the 
Financial Stability Board (FSB). They also reflect requirements imposed 
directly by, or derived from, EU legislation. Various bodies, such as 
central banks, also create voluntary Codes of Conduct which affect the 
way the Group does business. 

Regulatory developments impact the Group globally. We focus 
particularly on EU, UK and US regulation due to the location of Barclays' 
principal areas of business. Regulations elsewhere will affect Barclays due 
to the location of its branches, subsidiaries and, in some cases, clients. 

The Group and certain of its members are subject to supervisory stress 
testing exercises in a number of jurisdictions. These exercises currently 
include the programmes of the Bank of England (BoE), the European 
Banking Authority (EBA), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and 
the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). These exercises are designed 
to assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic or financial 
developments and ensure that they have robust, forward-looking capital 
planning processes that account for the risks associated with their 
business profile. Assessment by regulators is on both a quantitative 
and qualitative basis, the latter focusing on the Group's data provision, 
stress testing capability and internal management processes and 
controls. Failure to meet requirements of regulatory stress tests, or the 
failure by regulators to approve the stress test results and capital plans 
of the Group or its members subject to these exercises, could result in 
the Group or certain of its members being required to enhance its 
capital position or limit capital distributions, to any external holders of its 
equity or capital or within the Group. In 2016 Barclays and certain of its 
subsidiaries completed stress testing pursuant to the requirements 
of the BoE, EBA and SARB. Barclays was not required to submit revised 
plans as a result of these tests. Further details of Barclays capital 
requirements are set out below under ‘Prudential Developments'. 

Supervision in the EU
Financial regulation in the UK is to a significant degree shaped and 
influenced by EU legislation. This provides the structure of the European 
Single Market, an important feature of which is the framework for the 
regulation of authorised firms in the EU. This framework is designed to 
enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU 
member state to conduct banking or investment business in another 
member state through the establishment of branches or by the 
provision of services on a cross-border basis without the need for local 
authorisation. Barclays' operations in Europe are authorised and 
regulated by a combination of both home and host regulators. The 
impact of the UK's departure from the EU in this respect and, more 
broadly, its impact on the UK domestic regulatory framework, is yet to 
be determined. See the Risk Factor entitled ‘EU referendum', which 
discusses the potential impact of the UK's departure from the EU in 
more detail. 

In the UK, the BoE has responsibility for monitoring the UK financial 
system as a whole. The day-to-day regulation and supervision of the 
Group is divided between the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) 
and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 

In addition, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) of the BoE has 
influence on the prudential requirements that may be imposed on the 
banking system through its powers of direction and recommendation.

Barclays Bank PLC is authorised and subject to solo and consolidated 
prudential supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct regulation and 
supervision by the FCA. Barclays Bank PLC's Italian and French branches 
are also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank (ECB). 

In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to maintain the safety and 
soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but 
not guaranteeing, the protection of customers and the financial system. 
The PRA's continuing supervision of financial institutions is conducted 
through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of 
information by way of prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled 
persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with management to 
discuss issues such as performance, risk management, conduct and 
culture and strategy.

The regulation and supervision of market conduct matters is the 
responsibility of the FCA. The FCA's regulation of the UK firms in the 
Group is carried out through a combination of continuous assessment, 
regular thematic and project work based on the FCA's sector 
assessments, which analyse the different areas of the market and the 
risks that may lie ahead. 

Both the PRA and the FCA have continued to develop and apply a 
more assertive approach to supervision and the application of existing 
standards. This may include application of standards that either 
anticipate or go beyond requirements established by global or EU 
standards, whether in relation to capital, leverage and liquidity, 
resolvability and resolution or matters of conduct. 

The FCA has retained an approach to enforcement based on credible 
deterrence that has seen significant growth in the size of regulatory 
fines. The approach appears to be trending towards a more US model 
of enforcement including the use of Deferred Prosecution Agreements, 
vigorous enforcement of criminal and regulatory breaches, heightened 
fines and proposed measures related to increased corporate criminal 
liability and the failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion. 

The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk and on customer 
outcomes and will continue to do so. This has included a focus on the 
design and operation of products, the behaviour of customers and the 
operation of markets. This may affect both the incidence of conduct 
costs and increase the cost of remediation. The FCA has also 
increasingly focused on individual accountability within firms, as 
illustrated by the Senior Managers' Regime and Certification Regime 
detailed below.

Supervision in the US
The supervisory framework of Barclays within the US is set out below 
in the section entitled ‘Regulation in the US'.

Supervision in South Africa
In South Africa, BAGL's operations are supervised and regulated by the 
South African Reserve Bank (SARB), the Financial Services Board 
(SAFSB) as well as ancillary regulators including, amongst others, the 
Financial Intelligence Centre. SARB oversees the banking industry and 
follows a risk-based approach to supervision, whilst the SAFSB oversees 
non-banking financial services such as insurance and investment 
businesses. The National Credit Regulator regulates consumer credit and 
the National Consumer Commission is responsible for other aspects of 
consumer protection not regulated under the jurisdiction of the SAFSB. 
It is intended that regulatory responsibilities in South Africa will in future 
be divided between the SARB, which will be responsible for prudential 
regulation, and the SAFSB, which will be responsible for matters of 
market conduct. The proposed ‘twin peaks' legislation is currently going 
through the consultation phase of the Parliamentary process to enact 
the legislation. Barclays' and BAGL's operations in other African countries 
are primarily supervised and regulated by the central banks in the 
jurisdictions where Barclays or BAGL (as relevant) has a banking 
presence. In some African countries, the conduct of Barclays' and BAGL's 
operations and the non-banking activities are also regulated by financial 
market authorities. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
230 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
 

Supervision in Asia Pacific
Barclays' operations in Asia Pacific are supervised and regulated by a 
broad range of national regulators including: the Japan Financial Services 
Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Hong 
Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore, the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India and the People's Bank of China, China's State Administration of 
Foreign Exchange and the China Banking Regulatory Commission. Such 
supervision and regulation extends to activities conducted through 
branches of Barclays Bank PLC in the Asia Pacific region as well as 
subsidiaries of the Group.

Global regulatory developments
Regulatory change continues to affect all large financial institutions. 
Such change emanates from: global institutions such as the G20, 
FSB, IOSCO and BCBS; the European Union regionally; and national 
regulators, especially in the UK and US. 2016 gave rise to significant 
political changes in these markets, which have increased the level of 
regulatory and supervisory uncertainty faced by the Group and the 
financial markets more broadly. For more information, please see the 
Risk Factor entitled ‘Business conditions, general economy and 
geopolitical issues'.

Further changes to financial services regulations impacting Barclays 
may affect the Group's planned activities and could increase costs and 
contribute to adverse impacts on the Group's earnings. 

The programme of reform of the global regulatory framework previously 
agreed by G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has continued to 
be taken forward throughout 2016. The G20 continues to monitor 
emerging risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system and has stated 
that it will take action to address them if necessary. 

The FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for 
co-ordinating the delivery of the global reform programme in relation 
to the financial services industry. It has focused particularly on the risks 
posed by systemically important financial institutions. In 2011, G20 
Heads of Government adopted FSB proposals to reform the regulation of 
global systematically important financial institutions (G-SIFIs), including 
global systematically important banks (G-SIBs), such as Barclays. 

Regulatory developments in the financial services industry can broadly 
be categorised as follows: (a) prudential developments; (b) recovery and 
resolution developments, a key aspect of which is to ensure that G-SIFIs 
are capable of being resolved without recourse to taxpayer support; (c) 
structural reform developments; (d) market infrastructure developments, 
aimed at enhancing client protection, financial stability and market 
integrity; and (e) conduct, culture and consumer protection 
developments. 

Regulation in the EU and the UK

(a) Prudential developments 
The ‘Basel III' capital and liquidity standards, defined by BCBS, are 
implemented in EU law through CRD IV. The provisions of CRD IV either 
applied from, or had to be implemented in EU Member States by, 
1 January 2014. In addition, the PRA has expected Barclays, in common 
with other major UK banks and building societies, to meet a 7% CET1 
ratio at the level of the consolidated group since 1 January 2016.

G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional prudential requirements, 
including the requirement to hold additional loss absorbing capacity and 
additional capital buffers above the level required by Basel III standards. 
The level of G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB according to a bank's systemic 
importance and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk-weighted assets. 
The G-SIB buffer must be met with common equity. 

In November 2016, the FSB published an update to its list of G-SIBs, 
reducing the G-SIB buffer that Barclays is required to hold from 2% to 
1.5%, effective from January 2018. The additional G-SIB buffer began 
to be phased in from January 2016, from when G-SIBs were required to 
meet 25% of their designated buffer. This will increase to 50% in 2017, 
75% in 2018 and 100% in January 2019. G-SIBs have also been required 
to meet higher supervisory expectations for data aggregation 
capabilities since 1 January 2016. Barclays is also subject to, among 
other buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) based on rates 
determined by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which 
Barclays maintains exposures. These rates may vary in either direction, 
for example, in July 2016, the FPC published a policy statement directing 
the PRA to reduce the UK CCyB rate from 0.5% to 0% of banks' UK 
exposures with immediate effect, which was subsequently adopted by 
the PRA. In November 2016, the FPC reaffirmed that it expects to 
maintain a UK CCyB rate at 0% until at least June 2017, absent any 
material change in the economic outlook. The systemic risk buffer is 
expected to be set by the PRA for the first time in early 2019.

The BCBS maintains a number of active workstreams that will affect 
the Group. In January 2016, the BCBS endorsed a new market risk 
framework, including rules made as a result of its fundamental review 
of the trading book, to take effect in 2019. The BCBS also continues to 
focus on the consistency of risk weighting of assets and on reducing the 
variations of approaches to risk weightings between banks. This includes 
revisions to the standardised rules for credit risk, CVA volatility risk and 
operational risk. The BCBS is also considering whether to limit the use of 
internal models in certain areas (for example, removing the Advanced 
Measurement Approach for operational risk) and to apply capital floors 
based on the standardised approaches. The BCBS has also recently 
published final standards on the Basel III securitisation framework, 
interest rate risk in the banking book and minimum capital requirements 
for market risk. The final standards for measuring and controlling large 
exposures were published by the BCBS in April 2014 to take effect in 
2019. In November 2016 the European Commission adopted a proposal 
(commonly referred to as CRD V) to begin the legislative process for 
introducing these standards within the EU, with legislation expected to 
be finalised in late 2017 or early 2018. These proposals, if implemented 
in their current form would, among other things, overhaul existing rules 
relating to standardised and advanced market risk and the rules 
governing the inclusion of positions in the regulatory trading book. 
The proposals would also enhance rules for counterparty credit risk, 
strengthen requirements relating to leverage and large exposures and 
introduce a net stable funding ratio, requiring banks to ensure that they 
hold reliable sources of funds in excess of their required amount of 
stable funding over a one year period. CRD V also proposes to require 
that non-EU parent undertakings with two or more subsidiary firms 
established in the EU establish an intermediate parent undertaking, 
authorised and established in, and subject to the supervision of, an 
EU Member State. This requirement would apply to non-EU groups 
that have been identified as non-EU Global Systemically Important 
Institutions (G-SIIs) under CRD IV (as amended) and to groups with 
entities in the EU with total assets of at least €30bn. If implemented 
as proposed, Barclays could be required to establish such a holding 
company in respect of its EU operations following the UK's departure 
from the EU. 

In January 2017, the BCBS announced that its finalisation of reforms to 
Basel III had been delayed. The BCBS is now expected to issue updated 
standards on the calculation of operational risk, the standardised 
framework for credit risk, restrictions on the use of internal models 
(including the application of RWA floors based on standardised 
approaches), the leverage ratio (including a leverage ratio buffer for 
G-SIBs) and an output floor based on a standardised approach, later 
in 2017. As these measures will require EU and domestic legislation 
to be implemented, it is not clear when they will become effective. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 231

IFRS9 will be implemented in the European Union from 1 January 2018. 
In October 2016, the Basel Committee issued two documents on the 
treatment of accounting provisions in the regulatory framework, to take 
account of the future move to expected credit loss provisioning under 
IFRS and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards. One 
paper considered transitional arrangements to phase-in the immediate 
capital impact of the new provisioning standards, while the other 
discussed more fundamental changes to the recognition of provisions 
in regulatory capital and changes to the risk weighting framework. 
The European Commission's CRR2 proposal also proposed transitional 
arrangements. The regulatory capital impact of IFRS9 on the group 
will depend on the timing and final form of all these initiatives.

(b) Recovery and Resolution developments
An important component of the EU legislative framework is the 2014 
Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) which establishes a 
framework for the recovery and resolution of EU credit institutions and 
investment firms. The UK implemented the BRRD through the Financial 
Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (the Banking Reform Act), which 
amended the Banking Act 2009.

Pursuant to the Banking Act, UK resolution authorities are empowered to 
intervene in and resolve a UK financial institution that is no longer viable. 
Pursuant to these laws, the BoE (in consultation with the PRA and HM 
Treasury as appropriate) has several stabilisation options where a 
banking institution is failing or likely to fail: (i) transfer some or all of the 
securities of the bank to a commercial purchaser; (ii) transfer some or 
all of the property, rights and liabilities of the bank to a ‘bridge bank' 
wholly owned by the BoE or to a commercial purchaser; (iii) transfer the 
impaired or problem assets to an asset management vehicle to allow 
them to be managed over time; (iv) cancel or reduce certain liabilities 
of the institution or convert liabilities to equity to absorb losses and 
recapitalise the institution and (v) in the case of a holding company, 
transfer the banking institution into temporary public ownership. In 
addition, the BoE may apply for a court insolvency order in order to wind 
up or liquidate the institution or to put the institution into special 
administration. When exercising any of its stabilisation powers, the BoE 
must generally provide that shareholders bear first losses, followed by 
creditors in accordance with the priority of their claims under normal 
insolvency proceedings.

In order to enable the exercise of its stabilisation powers, the BoE 
may impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to terminate, 
accelerate or close out contracts, and in some cases to override events 
of default or termination rights that might otherwise be invoked as a 
result of a resolution action. In addition, the Banking Act gives the BoE 
the power to override, vary, or impose conditions or contractual 
obligations between a UK bank, its holding company and its group 
undertakings, in order to enable any transferee or successor bank to 
operate effectively after any of the resolution tools have been applied. 
There is also power for HM Treasury to amend the law (excluding 
provisions made by or under the Banking Act) for the purpose of 
enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with 
retrospective effect. The Banking Act powers apply regardless of any 
contractual restrictions and compensation that may be payable. In July 
2016 the PRA issued final rules on ensuring operational continuity in 
resolution. The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 and will require 
banks to ensure that their operational structures facilitate effective 
recovery and resolution planning and the continued provision of 
functions critical to the economy in a resolution scenario. 

In July 2016 the PRA issued final rules on ensuring operational continuity 
in resolution. The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 and will require 
banks to ensure that their operational structures facilitate effective 
recovery and resolution planning and the continued provision of 
fucntions ciritcal to the economy in a resolution scenario.

The BRRD requires EU member states to establish pre-funded resolution 
funds of 1% of covered deposits to be built up by 31 December 2024. 
The UK government uses the Bank Levy to meet this ex-ante funding 
requirements, as well as the ex-post contributions that would be 
required were the ex-ante contributions not to cover costs or other 
expenses incurred by use of the resolution funds. 

Separately, Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), a deposit 
guarantee scheme established under the EU Deposit Guarantee 
Schemes Directive and Investor Schemes Directive, is funded through 
fees levied on participant firms, including Barclays. The FSCS operates 
when an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims 
made against it by its customers because of its financial circumstances. 
Most insured deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within 
the EEA are covered by the FSCS. Most claims made in respect of 
investment business will also be protected claims if the business was 
carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm 
in question in another EEA member state. Deposits covered by the FSCS 
are preferred in an insolvency of the bank. 

In the event that the HM Treasury significantly increases the Bank Levy 
applicable to Barclays, or the FSCS significantly increases the fees levied 
on Barclays by virtue of its participation in the FSCS, the associated costs 
to the Group may have a material impact on the Group's results. 

The BRRD also requires competent authorities to impose a ‘Minimum 
Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities' (‘MREL') on financial 
institutions to facilitate the effective exercise of the bail-in tool referred 
to above. The EU proposes that for G-SIBs, such as Barclays, MREL 
should be set in accordance with the FSB Total Loss Absorbing Capital 
(TLAC) standard, discussed further below.

In November 2015 the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the 
loss-absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure that there is sufficient 
loss-absorbing and recapitalisation capacity available in resolution to 
implement an orderly resolution which minimises the impact on financial 
stability, ensures the continuity of critical functions and avoids exposing 
taxpayers to losses. To this end, the FSB has set a new minimum 
requirement for ‘total loss absorbing capacity' (TLAC). The EU has 
proposed to implement the TLAC standard via the MREL requirement 
and the European Commission has proposed amendments in its CRD V 
proposal to achieve this. As the proposals remain in draft it is uncertain 
what the final requirements and timing will be. The statement of policy 
confirmed that the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs as necessary to 
implement the TLAC standard and that institution or group-specific 
MREL requirements will depend on the preferred resolution strategy for 
that institution or group. The MREL will be phased in from 1 January 
2019 and will be fully implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time 
G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in the UK, including Barclays, 
will be required to meet a MREL equivalent to the higher of (i) two times 
the sum of its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements or (ii) the higher of two 
times its leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures. However, the 
PRA will review the MREL calibration by the end of 2020, including 
assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may drive a 
different 1 January 2022 MREL requirement than currently proposed. 
In addition, it is proposed that CET1 capital cannot be counted towards 
both MREL and the combined buffer requirement (CBR), meaning that 
the CBR will effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A 
requirements relating to own funds and MREL, such that a failure to 
maintain sufficient other MREL resources could result in a breach of 
the CBR.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
232 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
 

In October 2016, the BCBS also published its final standard on the 
prudential treatment of banks' investments in TLAC instruments issued 
by other institutions, confirming that internationally active banks (both 
G-SIBs and non-G-SIBs) must deduct their holdings of TLAC instruments 
that do not otherwise qualify as regulatory capital from their own Tier 2 
capital. Where the investing bank owns less than 10% of the issuing 
bank's common shares, TLAC holdings are to be deducted from Tier 2 
capital only to the extent that they exceed 10% of the investing bank's 
common equity (or 5% for non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings); below 
this threshold, holdings would instead be subjected to risk-weighting. 
G-SIBs may only apply risk-weighting to non-regulatory capital TLAC 
holdings by the 5% threshold where those holdings are in the trading 
book and are sold within 20 business days. 

In addition to the amendments proposed to align MREL for G-SIBs 
with the TLAC standard, in November 2016 the European Commission 
proposed a package of amendments to the BRRD, including to 
harmonise the priority ranking of unsecured debt instruments under 
national insolvency proceedings and to enhance the stabilisation tools 
by including a moratorium tool. 

The PRA has made rules that require authorised firms to draw up 
recovery plans and resolution packs, as required by the BRRD. Recovery 
plans are designed to outline credible recovery actions that authorised 
firms could implement in the event of severe stress in order to restore 
their business to a stable and sustainable condition. The resolution pack 
contains detailed information on the authorised firm in question which 
will be used to develop resolution strategies for that firm, assess its 
current level of resolvability against the strategy, and to inform work on 
identifying barriers to the implementation of operational resolution 
plans. In the UK, Recovery and Resolution Planning (RRP) work is 
considered part of continuing supervision. Removal of potential 
impediments to an orderly resolution of the Group or one or more of its 
subsidiaries in considered as part of the BoE's and PRA's supervisory 
strategy for each firm, and the PRA can require firms to make significant 
changes in order to enhance resolvability. Barclays currently provides 
the PRA with a Recovery Plan annually and with a Resolution Pack 
every other year.

The BoE's preferred approach for the resolution of the Group is a bail-in 
strategy with a single point of entry through Barclays PLC. Under such 
a strategy, Barclays PLC's subsidiaries would remain operational while 
Barclays PLC's eligible liabilities would be written down or converted to 
equity in order to recapitalise the Group and allow for the continued 
provision of services and operations throughout the resolution. This 
strategy relies on Barclays PLC having issued sufficient loss-absorbing 
capacity to effect bail-in and recapitalise the Group should the need 
arise. As a result the Group is focusing on transitioning eligible loss 
absorbing capital from subsidiary level to Barclays PLC level.

(c) Structural reform developments
Recent developments in banking law and regulation in the UK have 
included legislation designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller 
business deposit-taking businesses of large banks. The Banking Reform 
Act put in place a framework for this ring-fencing and secondary 
legislation passed in 2014 elaborated on the operation and application of 
the ring-fence. Ring-fencing rules have been published by the PRA 
further determining how ring-fenced banks will be permitted to operate. 
Further rules published by the FCA set out the disclosures that 
non-ring-fenced banks are required to make to prospective customers 
that are individuals.

In relation to ring-fencing in the UK, FSMA, as amended by the Banking 
Reform Act, requires, amongst other things, the separation of the retail 
and smaller business deposit-taking activities of UK banks in the UK and 
branches of UK banks in the European Economic Area (EEA) into a legally 
distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity, 
which will not be permitted to undertake a range of activities (so called 
ring-fencing). UK ring-fenced banks and large UK building societies will 
be required to hold CET1 capital in excess of that required under CRD IV 
from 2019. This requirement will be applied by the PRA on an institution 
specific basis according to a framework set out by the FPC. The 
implications of these requirements on Barclays are discussed in more 
detail in the Risk Factor entitled ‘Structural Reform'. 

At European level, the European Commission issued proposals 
recommending the mandatory separation of proprietary trading and 
other high-risk trading activities from banking activities in January 2014. 
These proposals would apply to institutions that have been identified as 
G-SIIs under CRD IV and envisage, amongst other things: (i) a ban on 
proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities; and (ii) 
rules on the economic, legal, governance, and operational links between 
the trading entities and other banking group entities. The legislative 
proposal includes a derogation in respect of the separation of trading 
activities (but not the ban on proprietary trading) for Member States 
which had adopted similar measures before the date of its publication. 
The legislative proposal remains under consideration by the European 
Parliament and the Council of the EU.

(d) Market Infrastructure developments
The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) has introduced 
requirements designed to improve transparency and reduce the risks 
associated with the derivatives market, some of which are still to be fully 
implemented. EMIR requires that certain entities that enter into 
derivative contracts: report such transactions; clear certain over the 
counter (OTC) transactions where mandated to do so; and implement 
risk mitigation standards in respect of uncleared OTC trades. The 
obligation to clear derivatives only applies to certain counterparties and 
specified types of derivative. In October 2016 the European Commission 
adopted a delegated regulation relating to the exchange of collateral, one 
of the risk mitigation techniques under EMIR. Provisions relating to initial 
margin will be phased in from 6 February 2017 until 1 September 2020. 
Provisions relating to variation margin applied on a phased basis from 
4 February 2017. EMIR has potential operational and financial impacts 
on the Group, including by imposing collateral requirements. 

CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying higher capital 
requirements for bilateral, uncleared over-the-counter derivative trades. 
Lower capital requirements for cleared derivatives trades are only 
available if the central counterparty through which the trade is cleared 
is recognised as a ‘qualifying central counterparty' (QCCP) which has 
been authorised or recognised under EMIR (in accordance with binding 
technical standards). Higher capital requirements may apply to the 
Group following the UK's departure from the EU if UK CCPs are not 
regarded as QCCPs. 

The amended Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Markets 
in Financial Instruments Regulation (collectively referred to as MiFID II) 
is expected to apply from 3 January 2018. MiFID II will affect many of 
the investment markets in which the Group operates, the instruments 
in which it trades and the way it transacts with market counterparties and 
other customers. Changes introduced by MiFID II include: the introduction 
of a new type of trading venue (the organised trading facility), capturing 
non-equity trading that falls outside the current regime; and the expansion 
of the concept of, and requirements applicable to, firms which systematically 
trade against proprietary capital (systematic internalisers).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 233

MiFID II also strengthens investor protections and imposes new curbs 
on high frequency and commodity trading. It also increases pre-and 
post-trade transparency and introduces a new regime for third country 
firms. MiFID II also includes new requirements relating to non-
discriminatory access to trading venues, central counterparties and 
benchmarks, and harmonised supervisory powers and sanctions 
across the EU. 

The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into force in June 2016, with 
the majority of provisions intended to apply from January 2018. This 
Regulation applies to the administration, contribution of data to and 
use of benchmarks within the EU. Financial institutions within the EU 
will be prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators 
are authorised, registered or otherwise recognised in the EU. 
This may impact the ability of Barclays to use certain benchmarks. 

In 2015 the European Commission launched work on establishing a 
Capital Markets Union (CMU) within the EU. The CMU aims to increase 
the availability of non-bank financing in the EU, deepen the single 
market for financial services and promote growth and financial stability. 
The Commission's work on the CMU includes the development of a 
regulatory framework in order to enhance efficiencies in the cross-border 
environment for capital markets, as well as a review of existing legislation 
to determine instances in which such legislation should be modified. 
This work is likely to continue through 2017 and beyond and may result 
in changes to the EU regulatory framework in which the Group operates. 

(e) Conduct, Culture and Consumer Protection developments
On 7 March 2016 the PRA and FCA introduced measures to increase 
the individual accountability of senior managers and other covered 
individuals in the banking sector. The new regime comprises the 
‘Senior Managers Regime', which applies to a limited number of 
individuals with senior management responsibilities within a firm, 
the ‘Certification Regime', which is intended to assess and monitor the 
fitness and proprietary of a wider range of employees who could pose 
a risk of significant harm to the firm or its customers and conduct rules 
that individuals subject to either regime must comply with. From March 
2017, the conduct rules will apply more widely to other staff of firms 
within scope of the regime.

The Financial Services Act 2010, amongst other things, requires the UK 
regulators to make rules about remuneration and to require regulated 
firms to have a remuneration policy that is consistent with effective risk 
management. The Banking Act also amended FSMA to allow the FCA 
to make rules requiring firms to operate a collective consumer redress 
scheme to deal with cases of widespread failure by regulated firms to 
meet regulatory requirements, that may have created consumer detriment.

Barclays has to comply with national data protection laws, governing 
the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data, in a majority of the 
countries in which it operates. From 25 May 2018 data protection laws 
throughout the EU will be replaced by a single General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR); the UK government has confirmed the UK will adopt 
and apply the GDPR from May 2018. The impact across Barclays will be 
significant, affecting not only Group entities operating and processing 
personal data within the EU but also those outside the EU offering 
goods or services to, or monitoring individuals within the EU. The GDPR 
contains significant penalties for data protection breaches and non-
compliance, up to 4% of Group global turnover.

A number of recent developments have indicated a clear political and 
regulatory desire to make customer transactional account information 
more easily accessible to customers and parties providing services to 
them. One such example is the revised Payment Services Directive 
(PSD2), which came into force on 12 January 2016 and must be 
implemented by 13 January 2018. Shortly after the finalisation of PSD2, 
the Open Banking Working Group, a body established at the request 
of HM Treasury, issued a report outlining how an ecosystem allowing 
the sharing of bank and customer information could be established, 
operated and governed. The resulting ‘Open Banking Standard' is 
intended to allow for the provision of access to public data and secure 
access to private data.

In August 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
published the results of its market investigation into retail banking, 
identifying features of the market that were having an adverse effect 
on competition and setting out a number of measures to remedy the 
shortcomings. One of these remedies requires Barclays, among other 
banks, to help establish and fund an entity to govern open access to 
information about bank services, provision and service quality. Barclays 
expects to be required to make public information available through 
open application programming interfaces (APIs) through the course of 
2017, with transactional information being available through an open 
API by January 2018 to align with the PSD2 timeframes.

EU regulation and governments have been increasingly focused on cyber 
security risk management for banking organisations and have proposed 
laws that would impose a variety of requirements on regulated Barclays 
entities. These requirements include minimum required security 
measures, enhanced reporting requirements and a variety of other cyber 
and information risk governance measures. When implemented, the 
proposals may increase technology and compliance costs for Barclays.

The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new form of corporate criminal 
liability focussed on a company's failure to prevent bribery on its behalf. 
The legislation has broad application and in certain circumstances may 
have extraterritorial impact as to entities, persons or activities located 
outside the UK, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. In practice, 
the legislation requires Barclays to have adequate procedures to prevent 
bribery which, due to the extraterritorial nature of the status, makes this 
both complex and costly. 

Regulation in the US
Supervision in the US
Barclays' US activities and operations are subject to umbrella supervision 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), as well 
as additional supervision, requirements and restrictions imposed by 
other federal and state regulators. Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and 
their US branches and subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive 
regulatory framework involving numerous statutes, rules and 
regulations, including the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act), the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 
and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 
2010 (DFA). In some cases, US requirements may impose restrictions on 
Barclays' global activities in addition to its activities in the US. 

In July 2016, Barclays established a US intermediate holding company, 
Barclays US LLC (BUSL), which holds substantially all of Barclays' US 
subsidiaries and assets (including Barclays Capital Inc. and Barclays Bank 
Delaware), other than Barclays' US branches and certain other assets 
and subsidiaries. BUSL, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are 
regulated as bank holding companies (BHCs) by the FRB, which 
exercises umbrella supervisory authority over and imposes a wide variety 
of requirements and restrictions on Barclays' US operations, including 
with respect to safety and soundness. As Barclays' top-tier US bank 
holding company, BUSL is or will become subject to the enhanced 
prudential supervision requirements applicable to US bank holding 
companies of comparable size, including: (i) regulatory capital 
requirements and leverage limits; (ii) mandatory annual supervisory and 
annual and semi-annual company-run stress testing of capital levels, 
and annual submission of a capital plan in connection with the FRB's 
annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), resulting 
in an FRB objection or non-objection to the capital plan; (iii) FRB 
non-objection to any proposed capital distributions by BUSL, including 
to Barclays Bank PLC; (iv) additional substantive liquidity requirements, 
including requirements to conduct monthly internal liquidity stress 
tests for BUSL (and also, separately, for Barclays Bank PLC's US branch 
network), and to maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets; (v) other 
liquidity risk management requirements, including compliance with liquidity 
risk management standards established by the FRB, and maintenance of 
an independent function to review and evaluate regularly the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the liquidity risk management practices of Barclays' 
combined US operations; and (vi) overall risk management requirements, 
including a US risk committee and a US chief risk officer. BUSL will become 
subject to the FRB's capital planning requirements in 2017.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
234 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
 

The BHC Act generally restricts the activities of BHCs to banking and 
activities closely related to banking. In order to engage in a broader range 
of activities, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have also elected to be 
treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. Financial 
holding companies may engage in a range of financial and related 
activities, directly or through subsidiaries, including underwriting, dealing 
and making markets in securities. In order to maintain its status as a 
financial holding company, a financial holding company is required to 
meet or exceed certain regulatory capital ratios and other requirements 
and be deemed ‘well capitalised' and ‘well managed'. In addition, the 
financial holding company status requires Barclays Bank Delaware 
to maintain at least a ‘satisfactory' rating under the Community 
Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA). Entities ceasing to meet any of these 
requirements are required to enter into an agreement to correct the 
deficiency and are allotted a period of time in which to restore capital 
levels or management ratings. The non-compliant entity will be subject 
to limitations on activities during any period of non-compliance. If the 
capital level or rating is not restored, the non-compliant entity would be 
subjected to increasingly stringent penalties and could ultimately be 
closed or required to cease certain activities in the US. 

In addition to general oversight by the FRB, certain of Barclays' branches 
and subsidiaries are regulated by additional authorities based on the 
location or activities of those entities. The deposits of Barclays Bank 
Delaware are insured by the FDIC, which also exercises supervisory 
authority over the bank's operations. Under the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL are required 
to act as a source of financial strength for Barclays Bank Delaware. This 
could, among other things, require these entities to inject capital into 
Barclays Bank Delaware if it fails to meet applicable regulatory capital 
requirements. The New York and Florida branches of Barclays Bank PLC 
are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by, as applicable, 
the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYSDFS) and 
the Florida Office of Financial Regulation. Barclays Bank Delaware, a 
Delaware chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision and 
regulation by the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner. 

Barclays' US securities broker/dealer, investment advisory and 
investment banking operations are also subject to ongoing supervision 
and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and other government 
agencies and self-regulatory organisations (SROs) as part of a 
comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities 
and commodities business under US federal and state securities laws.

Similarly, Barclays' US commodity futures, commodity options and 
swaps-related operations are subject to ongoing supervision and 
regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), 
the National Futures Association and other SROs.

Barclays' US retail and consumer activities, including the US credit card 
operations of Barclays Bank Delaware, are subject to direct supervision 
and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), 
which was established by the DFA. The CFPB has the authority to 
examine and take enforcement action related to compliance with federal 
laws and regulations regarding the provision of consumer financial 
services and the prohibition of ‘unfair, deceptive or abusive acts 
and practices'.

The ‘Volcker Rule', a provision of the DFA that came into effect in July 
2015, prohibits banking entities from undertaking certain ‘proprietary 
trading' activities and limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, 
private equity funds (including non-conforming real estate and credit 
funds) and hedge funds, in each case broadly defined, by such entities. 
These restrictions are subject to certain exemptions, including for 
underwriting, market-making and risk-mitigating hedging activities as 
well as for transactions and investments occurring solely outside of the 
US. As required by the rule, Barclays has developed and implemented 
an extensive compliance and monitoring programme (both inside and 
outside of the US) addressing proprietary trading and covered fund 
activities. These efforts are expected to continue as the FRB and the 
other relevant US regulatory agencies further implement and monitor 
these requirements and Barclays may incur additional costs in relation 
to such efforts. The Volcker Rule is highly complex and its full impact 
will not be known with certainty until market practices and structures 
further develop under it. 

The Bank Secrecy Act, USA PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations 
thereunder contain numerous anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist 
financing requirements for financial institutions. In addition, Barclays is 
subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits certain 
payments to foreign officials, as well as rules and regulations relating to 
economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the US 
Office of Foreign Assets Control which restrict certain business activities 
with certain individuals, entities, groups, countries and territories. In 
some cases, these regulations may impact entities, persons or activities 
located outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. 
The enforcement of these regulations has been a major focus of US 
government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years, and 
failure of a financial institution to ensure compliance could have serious 
legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution.

The US regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural 
values as a key area for banks. The regulators view the responsibility for 
reforming culture as primarily sitting with the industry. In this regard 
regulators have increasingly focused on areas such as incentive 
compensation, promotion processes and measurements of success.

Title II of the DFA established the Orderly Liquidation Authority, a 
new regime for orderly liquidation of systemically important financial 
institutions, which could apply to BUSL. Specifically, when a systemically 
important financial institution is in default or danger of default, the FDIC 
may be appointed receiver under the orderly liquidation authority instead 
of the institution being resolved through a voluntary or involuntary 
proceeding under the US Bankruptcy Code. In addition, the licensing 
authorities of each US branch of Barclays Bank PLC and of Barclays Bank 
Delaware have the authority, in certain circumstances, to take possession 
of the business and property of the applicable Barclays entity they license 
or to revoke or suspend such licence. Such circumstances include 
violations of law, unsafe business practices and insolvency. 

Under the DFA, Barclays must submit annually to the FRB and the FDIC 
a plan for its ‘rapid and orderly' resolution in the event of material 
financial distress or failure. As required, Barclays submitted its most 
recent annual US resolution plan to the US regulators on 1 July 2015. 
Barclays' next submission will be due on 1 July 2017 in view of the FDIC's 
and FRB's joint determination that certain foreign banking organisations' 
2016 annual resolution plan filing requirements would be satisfied by the 
2017 submission. 

In addition, on 3 February 2017, the President of the US issued an 
executive order identifying ‘core principles' for the administration's 
financial services regulatory policy and directing the US Secretary of 
Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other US financial regulatory 
agencies, to evaluate and issue a report within 120 days examining how 
the current regulatory framework promotes or inhibits the principles and 
what actions have been and are being taken to promote the principles.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 235

Regulatory developments in the US
The DFA's ultimate impact on the Group continues to remain uncertain 
and some rules are not yet fully implemented. In addition, market 
practices and structures may change in response to the requirements 
of the DFA in ways that are difficult to predict but that could impact 
Barclays' business. Nonetheless, certain proposed or final regulations 
are particularly likely to have a significant effect on the Group, including:

(a) Regulation of derivatives markets
Among the changes mandated by the DFA is a requirement that many 
types of derivatives that used to be traded in the over the counter 
markets be traded on an exchange or swap execution facility and 
centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house. The DFA also 
mandates that swaps and security-based swaps be reported and that 
certain of that information be made available to the public on an 
anonymous basis. In addition, certain participants in these markets are 
required to register with the CFTC as ‘swap dealers' or ‘major swap 
participants' and/or, following the compliance date for relevant SEC 
rules, with the SEC as ‘security-based swap dealers' or ‘major security-
based swap participants'. Such registrants would be subject to CFTC and 
SEC regulation and oversight. SEC finalised the rules governing security 
based swap dealer registration in 2015 but clarified that registration 
timing is contingent upon the finalisation of certain additional rules 
under Title VII of DFA, several of which are still pending. Additional SEC 
rules governing security-based swap transactions, including security-
based swap reporting, will become effective after the security-based 
swap dealer registration date. Barclays Bank PLC has provisionally 
registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer. Entities required to register 
are subject to business conduct and record-keeping requirements and 
will be subject to capital and margin requirements in connection with 
transactions with certain US and non-US counterparties. Barclays Bank 
PLC is also prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer so is subject to the 
FRB swaps rules. 

The CFTC has approved certain comparability determinations that 
would permit substituted compliance with non-US regulatory regimes 
for certain swap regulations related to business conduct requirements. 
The CFTC had previously stated that its transaction-level rules (such 
as margin and documentation requirements) would apply to certain 
transactions entered into between a non-US swap dealer and a non-US 
counterparty but has delayed the compliance date for this requirement 
a number of times. The most recent extension of this relief expires on 
30 September 2017. In addition, the CFTC has proposed to apply 
transaction-level rules to certain cross-border transactions with a US 
nexus. It is unclear whether further changes will be made to these 
proposed rules or when they will become effective.

In this regard, the US prudential regulators and the CFTC have imposed 
rules requiring the exchange of collateral in respect of OTC derivative 
transactions, in a similar manner to the European Commission as set 
out above in the section entitled ‘Market Infrastructure Developments'. 

(b) Prudential developments 
The FRB has proposed a number of prudential rules to implement DFA 
requirements, as well as its own versions of a number of international 
regulatory standards, including Basel large exposure rules (or single 
counterparty credit limits, proposed in March 2016) and temporary 
resolution stays for qualified financial contracts (proposed in May 2016). 

In December 2016, the FRB issued final regulations for TLAC which will 
apply to BUSL. The FRB's final TLAC rule, while generally following the 
FSB termsheet, contains a number of provisions that are more restrictive. 
For example, the FRB's TLAC rule includes provisions that require BUSL 
(the Barclays IHC) to have (i) a specified outstanding amount of eligible 
long-term debt, (ii) a specified outstanding amount of TLAC (consisting 
of common and preferred equity regulatory capital plus long term debt), 
and (iii) a specified common equity buffer. In addition, the FRB's TLAC 
rule would prohibit BUSL, for so long as the Group's overall resolution 
plan treats BUSL as a non-resolution entity, from issuing TLAC to entities 
other than the Group and its non-US subsidiaries.

In addition, the FRB has issued proposed regulations for net stable 
funding ratio (NSFR) implementation. The NSFR is one of the two Basel 
III-based liquidity measures, along with the LCR, and as proposed by 
the FRB, would apply to US bank holding companies with more than 
$250bn in total assets or $10bn or more in on-balance sheet foreign 
exposures, including BUSL, and consolidated depositary institution 
subsidiaries of such banking organisations with more than $10bn in 
assets, including Barclays Bank Delaware. Under the proposed rule, 
such entities would be required to maintain a minimum level of available 
stable funding that equals or exceeds the amount of required stable 
funding over a one-year period. The proposal provides for an effective 
date of 1 January 2018, subject to finalisation of the rules. 

If finally adopted as currently proposed, the NSFR requirement could 
impact Barclays liquidity and increase the funding and compliance costs 
for BUSL. 

(c) Cybersecurity
US regulators, including the FRB, FDIC and NYSDFS, have been 
increasingly focused on cybersecurity risk management for banking 
organisations and have issued proposals for, or requested comment  
on, regulations that would impose a variety of new requirements on 
regulated Barclays entities. These requirements include, among others, 
the adoption of cybersecurity policies and procedures meeting specified 
criteria, a set of minimum required security measures, new reporting and 
compliance certification requirements and a variety of other cyber and 
information risk governance measures. If finally implemented, the 
proposals may increase technology and compliance costs for Barclays. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
236 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
 

Structural Reform
Overview
Barclays announced in March 2016 that it will be organised as two 
clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, to 
simplify the Group and prepare early for UK ring-fencing requirements.

Barclays intends to achieve ring-fencing separation by setting up an 
operational legal entity, which will constitute the ring-fenced bank (RFB) 

and will be separate from Barclays Bank PLC. The Barclays UK division of 
Barclays Bank PLC will be transferred to the RFB. Barclays Bank PLC will 
continue to house the Barclays International division. The two banking 
entities, RFB (containing Barclays UK) and Barclays Bank PLC (containing 
Barclays International) will operate alongside one another, together 
with the Group Service Company, Barclays Services Limited (BSerL), 
as subsidiaries of Barclays PLC within the Barclays Group.

Barclays PLCa

Ring-Fenced Bank

Barclays UK

UK consumer and business bank 
differentiated by scale and digital 
innovation

Group Service Company 

Provides critical services to Barclays 
UK and Barclays International to 
deliver operational continuity 

Barclays International

Diversified transatlantic wholesale 
and consumer bank

Barclays Services Limited Barclays Bank PLCFuture State Legal Entity

Divisional Constructs

In order to achieve this target-state structure, Barclays will need to 
undertake a number of legal transfers, including the transfer of customer 
and non-customer assets, liabilities and contractual arrangements.

Barclays intends to use a court approved statutory ring-fence transfer 
scheme process as defined in Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
Part VII section 106B (RFTS) to conduct the majority of these transfers 
to the RFB, as well as certain other items to BSerL. In addition to the 
transfers conducted through the RFTS, certain items will be transferred 
via alternative arrangements.

Between now and 1 January 2019, Barclays will complete the transition 
from the former divisional constructs to the legal entity constructs 
described above. 

Timeline
Barclays' Structural Reform timeline, including progress to date and 
indicative future milestones is as follows:
■■ 2015:

 – The legal entity which will become the RFB was incorporated.

■■ 2016:
 – Barclays' US intermediate holding company was established.

 – RFB banking authorisation application was submitted to 
the regulators.

 – BSerL, which will become the Group Service Company, 
was transferred to be a direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC. 

■■ 2017:
 – Various legal entities connected with the future Barclays UK 
business will be transferred to be subsidiaries of the entity which 
will become the RFB.

 – Certain assets, liabilities, and other items connected with service 
provision will be transferred from Barclays Bank PLC to BSerL to 
establish the entity as the Group Service Company.

 – RFTS court process will be initiated during Q4 2017 with the 
submission of an application to the high court followed by the 
directions court hearing.

■■ 2018: 
 – Final court hearing will be held in respect of the RFTS.
 – Barclays UK businesses and related items will be transferred to 
the RFB through the RFTS and via alternative arrangements, 
taking effect in H1 2018.

 – Additional items connected with service provision will be transferred 
to BSerL, also via the RFTS in H1 2018.

 – Immediately following completion of the RFTS, the equity 
ownership in the RFB will be transferred, establishing the RFB as 
a direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC, alongside Barclays Bank PLC 
and BSerL.

Note
a  Illustration of Barclays business divisions in preparation for regulatory ring-fencing. Plans are subject to internal and regulatory approvals and may change.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 237

Financial review

Financial review Page
■■ Key performance indicators 238
■■ Consolidated summary income statement 240
■■ Income statement commentary 241
■■ Consolidated summary balance sheet 242
■■ Balance sheet commentary 243
■■ Analysis of results by business 244
■■ Non-IFRS performance measures 259

A review of the performance of Barclays, 
including the key performance indicators,  
and the contribution of each of our businesses' 
to the overall performance of the Group.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
238 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in this document provide valuable information to the readers of the 
financial statements as they enable the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the business' performance between financial periods, 
and provide more detail concerning the elements of performance which the managers of these businesses are most directly able to influence or are 
relevant for an assessment of the Group. They also reflect an important aspect of the way in which operating targets are defined and performance is 
monitored by Barclays' management. However, any non-IFRS performance measures in this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and 
readers should consider the IFRS measures as well. Refer to pages 259 - 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS 
performance measures included throughout this document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.

Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio
Capital requirements are part of the 
regulatory framework governing how 
banks and depository institutions are 
supervised. Capital ratios express a 
bank's capital as a percentage of its 
RWAs as defined by the PRA.

In the context of CRD IV, the fully 
loaded CET1 ratio is a measure of 
capital that is predominantly 
common equity as defined by the 
Capital Requirements Regulation.

The Group's capital management objective is to 
maximise shareholder value by prudently managing  
the level and mix of its capital to: ensure the Group 
and all of its subsidiaries are appropriately capitalised 
relative to their minimum regulatory and stressed 
capital requirements, support the Group's risk appetite, 
growth and strategic options, while seeking to 
maintain a robust credit proposition for the Group  
and its subsidiaries.

The Group's CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio increased 
to 12.4% (2015: 11.4%) due to an increase in CET1 
capital to £45.2bn (2015: £40.7bn), partially offset by 
an increase in RWAs to £366bn (2015: £358bn). The 
100bps increase reflected the Group's ability to grow 
capital through profit generation.

Group target: Revised end-state CET1 capital ratio 
target of 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory 
level providing 400-450bps buffer to the Bank of 
England stress test systemic reference point. 

12.4%
CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio

2015: 11.4%
2014: 10.3%

Return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity
RoTE is calculated as profit after tax 
attributable to ordinary shareholders, 
including an adjustment for the tax 
credit recorded in reserves in respect 
of other equity instruments, as a 
proportion of average shareholders' 
equity excluding non-controlling 
interests and other equity 
instruments adjusted for the 
deduction of intangible assets  
and goodwill.

This measure indicates the return generated by the 
management of the business based on shareholders' 
tangible equity. Achieving a target RoTE demonstrates 
the organisation's ability to execute its strategy and 
align management's interests with the shareholders. 
RoTE lies at the heart of the Group's capital allocation 
and performance management process. 

RoTE for the Group increased to 3.6% (2015: (0.7%)) 
reflecting an increase in Group attributable profit to 
£1,623m (2015: loss of £394m) and increased average 
tangible shareholders' equity of £49bn (2015: £48bn). 

Core RoTE increased to 8.4% (2015: 4.8%) reflecting a 
95% increase in attributable profit to £3,350m and a 
£4bn increase in average allocated tangible equity to 
£41bn, as capital was returned from Non-Core. Core 
RoTE excluding notable items reduced to 9.4% (2015: 
11.2%) with a 4% increase in profit before tax to 
£6,436m and an 8% reduction in attributable profit to 
£3,781m primarily reflecting an increase in tax, due to 
the introduction of a new surcharge of 8% that applies 
to banks' UK profits with effect from 1 January 2016.

Group target: Group RoTE will converge with Core RoTE.

3.6%
Group RoTE

2015: (0.7%)
2014: (0.3%) 

8.4%
Core RoTE

2015: 4.8%
2014: 7.0%

9.4%
Core RoTE excluding notable 
items

2015: 11.2%
2014: 11.2%

In assessing the financial performance of the Group, management uses a range of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which focus on the Group's 
financial strength, the delivery of sustainable returns and cost management.

Key performance indicators

Financial review

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 239

Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

Leverage ratio
The ratio is calculated as fully  
loaded Tier 1 capital divided by 
leverage exposure.

The leverage ratio is non-risk based and is intended  
to act as a supplementary measure to the risk-based 
capital metrics such as the CET1 ratio.

The leverage ratio increased to 4.6% (2015: 4.5%), 
reflecting an increase in Tier 1 capital to £52.0bn 
(2015: £46.2bn) and an increase in leverage exposure 
of £97bn to £1,125bn. Tier 1 capital included £6.8bn 
(2015: £5.4bn) of AT1 securities.

Group target: maintaining the leverage ratio above 
future minimum requirements.

4.6%
Leverage ratio

2015: 4.5%
2014: 3.7%

Cost: income ratio
Total operating expenses divided  
by total income.

This is a measure management uses to assess the 
productivity of the business operations. Restructuring 
the cost base is a key execution priority for 
management and includes a review of all categories of 
discretionary spending and an analysis of how we can 
run the business to ensure that costs increase at a 
slower rate than income.

The Group cost: income ratio reduced to 76% (2015: 
84%) driven by a 12% reduction in operating 
expenses, partially offset by a 3% reduction in income. 

The reduction in operating expenses included a 
£3,024m reduction in litigation and conduct charges  
in 2016 to £1,363m.

The Core cost: income ratio reduced to 64% (2015: 
75%) reflecting the reduction in litigation and conduct 
charges. Excluding notable items, the Core cost: 
income ratio reduced to 61% in 2016 (2015: 62%).

Group target: cost: income ratio of less than 60%  
over time.

76%
Cost: income ratio

2015: 84%
2014: 84%

Operating expenses
Total operating expenses, excluding 
conduct and litigation charges, and 
other notable items.

Barclays views operating expenses as a key strategic 
area for banks; those who actively manage costs and 
control them effectively will gain a strong competitive 
advantage. 

Operating expenses for the Group were £14,975m 
(2015: £14,479m) when excluding conduct and 
litigation charges, and other notable items. This 
reflected increased structural reform implementation 
costs and the strengthening in average USD and EUR 
against GBP. Q416 included the impact of a decision 
for 2016 compensation awards, to more closely align 
income statement recognition with performance 
awards and to harmonise deferral structures across 
the Group. These changes resulted in a £395m income 
statement charge in Q416, of which £390m was in 
Core, resulting in Core costs being above guidance by 
that amount.

Refer to page 261 for a reconciliation of total operating 
expenses excluding conduct and litigation charges, 
and other notable items.

£14,975m
Group operating expenses

2015: £14,479m
2014: £15,377m

£13,390m
Core operating expenses

2015: £12,532m
2014: £12,664m

Non-Core RWAs 
RWAs are a risk adjusted measure  
of assets. Risk weightings are 
established in accordance with the 
Basel Capital Accord as implemented 
by the PRA.

Barclays Non-Core was established as a separate unit 
in 2014 and groups together businesses and assets 
which do not fit with the strategic objectives of the 
Group. Reducing Non-Core RWAs will rebalance the 
Group to deliver higher and more sustainable returns.

Non-Core RWAs reduced by £22bn to £32bn in 2016. 
The 41% reduction in the year reflects strong progress 
in the rundown, driven by a £10bn reduction in 
Derivatives, a £3bn reduction in Securities and loans,  
a £4bn reduction in Businesses RWAs, and a £4bn 
reallocation to Head Office of operational risk RWAs 
associated with exited businesses and assets.

Target: Non-Core RWAs of c.£25bn as at 30 June 2017. 

£32bn
Non-Core

2015: £54bn
2014: £89bn

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
240 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Consolidated summary income statement

For the year ended 31 Decembera
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m
2013

£m
2012

£m

Continuing operationsb

Net interest income 10,537 10,608 10,086 9,457 9,442
Non-interest income 10,914 11,432 11,677 14,587 11,399
Total income 21,451 22,040 21,763 24,044 20,841

Credit impairment charges and other provisions (2,373) (1,762) (1,821) (2,601) (2,659)

Operating expenses (14,565) (13,723) (14,959) (16,628) (15,256)
UK bank levy (410) (426) (418) (462) (311)
Litigation and conduct (1,363) (4,387) (2,807) (2,442) (2,912)
Total operating expenses (16,338) (18,536) (18,184) (19,532) (18,479)

Other net income/(expenses) 490 (596) (445) (32) 122

Profit/(loss) before tax 3,230 1,146 1,313 1,879 (175)
Tax charge (993) (1,149) (1,121) (1,251) (326)
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,237 (3) 192 628 (502)
Profit after tax in respect of discontinued operationb 591 626 653 669 683
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations (346) (348) (449) (414) (467)
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operationb (402) (324) (320) (343) (339)
Other equity holders (457) (345) (250) – –
Attributable profit/(loss) 1,623 (394) (174) 540 (624)

Selected financial statistics
Basic earnings/(loss) per sharec 10.4p (1.9p) (0.7p) 3.8p (4.8p)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per sharec 10.3p (1.9p) (0.7p) 3.7p (4.8p)
Dividend payout ratio 23% 39% 38% 41% 18%
Return on average tangible shareholders' equityc 3.6% (0.7%) (0.3%) 1.2% (1.4%)

The financial information above is extracted from the published accounts. This information should be read together with the information included in 
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Notes
a Comparatives have been restated to reflect the implementation of the Group business reorganisation. These restatements were detailed in our announcement on 14 April 2016, 

accessible at home.barclays/results.
b Refer to page 257 for further information on the Africa Banking discontinued operation. 
c The profit after tax attributable to other equity holders of £457m (2015: £345m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £128m (2015: £70m). The net amount of £329m 

(2015: £275m), along with NCI is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share and return on average tangible shareholders' equity.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 241

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased to £3,230m (2015: £1,146m). The Group 
performance reflected good operational performance in Barclays UK and 
Barclays International whilst being impacted by the Non-Core loss before 
tax of £2,786m (2015: £2,603m) driven by the accelerated rundown of 
Non-Core and provisions for UK customer redress of £1,000m (2015: 
£2,772m). The appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP 
positively impacted income and adversely affected impairment and 
operating expenses.

Total income decreased 3% to £21,451m as Non-Core income reduced 
£1,776m to a net expense of £1,164m due to the acceleration of the 
Non-Core rundown, while Core income increased 6% to £22,615m. 
Within Core, Barclays International income increased 9% to £14,995m, 
with growth in both CIB and Consumer, Cards and Payments, and 
Barclays UK income increased 2% to £7,517m.

Total income included a £615m (2015: £nil) gain on disposal of Barclays' 
share of Visa Europe Limited and an own credit loss of £35m (2015: gain 
of £430m).

Credit impairment charges increased £611m to £2,373m including a 
£320m charge in Q316 following the management review of the UK and 
US cards portfolio impairment modelling and balance growth primarily 
within Consumer, Cards and Payments. This was partially offset by a 
reduction in credit impairment charges of 9% to £122m in Non-Core due 
to lower impairment charges in European businesses. This resulted in a 
11bps increase in the loan loss rate to 53bps.

Total operating expenses reduced 12% to £16,338m reflecting lower 
litigation and conduct charges. This was partially offset by the non-
recurrence of the prior year gain of £429m on the valuation of a 
component of the defined retirement benefit liability and increased 
structural reform implementation costs. Operating expenses also 
included a £395m additional charge in Q416 relating to 2016 
compensation awards reflecting a decision to more closely align income 
statement recognition with performance awards and to harmonise 
deferral structures across the Group.

Total operating expenses included provisions for UK customer redress  
of £1,000m (2015: £2,772m). 

The cost: income ratio improved to 76% (2015: 84%).

Other net income of £490m (2015: expense of £596m) included gains 
on the sale of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index Solutions, the Asia 
wealth and investment management business and the Southern 
European cards business, partly offset by the loss on sale of the French 
retail business of £455m.

The effective tax rate on profit before tax decreased to 30.7% (2015: 
100.3%) principally as a result of a reduction in non-deductible charges.

Profit after tax in respect of continuing operations increased to £2,237m 
(2015: loss of £3m). Profit after tax in relation to the Africa Banking 
discontinued operation decreased 6% to £591m as increased credit 
impairment charges and operating expenses were partially offset by 
income growth.

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity was 3.6% (2015: 
(0.7%)) and basic earnings per share was 10.4p (2015: (1.9p)).

2015 compared to 2014
Profit before tax decreased to £1,146m (2014: £1,313m).

Total income increased 1% to £22,040m as Core income increased  
4% to £21,428m, reflecting a 6% increase to £13,747m in Barclays 
International and a 22% increase in Head Office to £338m, which was 
partially offset by a 1% decrease to £7,343m in Barclays UK. Non-Core 
income reduced 46% to £612m, following assets and securities 
rundown, business sales including the impact of the sales of the Spanish 
and UAE retail businesses, and fair value losses on the ESHLA portfolio 
of £359m (2014: £156m).

Total income included a £496m (2014: £461m) gain on the US Lehman 
acquisition assets and an own credit gain of £430m (2014: £34m). 2014 
total income included a loss of £935m (2015: £nil) relating to a revision 
to the ESHLA valuation methodology.

Credit impairment charges improved 3% to £1,762m, with a loan loss 
rate of 42bps (2014: 42bps). This reflected lower impairments in Barclays 
UK due to the benign economic environment in the UK resulting in lower 
default rates and charges and higher recoveries in European businesses 
in Non-Core. This was partially offset by increased impairment charges 
in Consumer, Cards and Payments primarily driven by asset growth  
and updates to impairment model methodologies, and increased 
impairment charges in CIB due to impairment of a number of single 
name exposures.  

Total operating expenses increased 2% to £18,536m due to an increase 
in litigation and conduct charges, and costs associated with the 
implementation of structural reform. This was partially offset by savings 
from the strategic cost programme, in addition to the continued 
rundown of Non-Core. 

Total operating expenses included additional provisions for UK customer 
redress of £2,772m (2014: £1,110m), additional provisions for ongoing 
investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange of £1,237m 
(2014: £1,250m), a £429m (2014: £nil) gain on valuation of a 
component of the defined retirement benefit liability and £96m (2014: 
£nil) of impairment of goodwill and other assets relating to businesses 
being disposed.

The cost: income ratio remained stable at 84% (2014: 84%). 

Other net expenses increased to £596m (2014: £445m) primarily 
relating to losses on sale relating to the Spanish, Portuguese and Italian 
businesses of £577m (2014: £446m).

The tax charge of £1,149m (2014: £1,121m) on profit before tax of 
£1,146m (2014: £1,313m) represented an effective tax rate of 100.3% 
(2014: 85.4%), impacted by non-deductible items.  

Profit after tax in respect of continuing operations decreased to a loss  
of £3m (2014: profit of £192m). Profit after tax in relation to the Africa 
Banking discontinued operation decreased 4% to £626m driven by a 
reduction in total income and an increase in credit impairment charges, 
partially offset by a reduction in operating expenses.

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity was (0.7%) (2014: 
(0.3%)) and basic loss per share was 1.9p (2014: 0.7p).



Income statement commentary

Financial review
Strateg

ic rep
ort

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

ents
S

h
areh

old
er inform

ation

<Page End><Page Start>
242 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Consolidated summary balance sheet

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m
2013

£m
2012

£m

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 49,711 39,695 45,687 86,191
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,467 1,011 1,210 1,282 1,473
Trading portfolio assets 80,240 77,348 114,717 133,069 146,352
Financial assets designated at fair value 78,608 76,830 38,300 38,968 46,629
Derivative financial instruments 346,626 327,709 439,909 350,300 485,140
Financial investments 63,317 90,267 86,066 91,756 75,109
Loans and advances to banks 43,251 41,349 42,111 39,422 41,799
Loans and advances to customers 392,784 399,217 427,767 434,237 430,601
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 28,187 131,753 186,779 176,522
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 71,454 7,364 – – –
Other assets 19,572 21,019 36,378 22,128 22,535
Total assets 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906 1,343,628 1,512,351
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 48,214 47,080 58,390 55,615 77,345
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 636 1,013 1,177 1,359 1,587
Customer accounts 423,178 418,242 427,704 431,998 390,828
Trading portfolio liabilities 34,687 33,967 45,124 53,464 44,794
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 96,031 91,745 56,972 64,796 78,561
Derivative financial instruments 340,487 324,252 439,320 347,118 480,987
Debt securities in issuea 75,932 69,150 86,099 86,693 119,525
Subordinated liabilities 23,383 21,467 21,153 21,695 24,018
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowings 19,760 25,035 124,479 196,748 217,178
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 65,292 5,997 – – –
Other liabilities 14,161 16,200 31,530 20,193 17,542
Total liabilities 1,141,761 1,054,148 1,291,948 1,279,679 1,452,365
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 21,842 21,586 20,809 19,887 12,477
Other equity instruments 6,449 5,305 4,322 2,063 –    
Other reserves 6,051 1,898 2,724 249 3,674
Retained earnings 30,531 31,021 31,712 33,186 34,464
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 64,873 59,810 59,567 55,385 50,615
Non-controlling interests 6,492 6,054 6,391 8,564 9,371
Total equity 71,365 65,864 65,958 63,949 59,986
Total liabilities and equity 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906 1,343,628 1,512,351

Tangible net asset value per share 290p 275p 285p 283p 349p
Net asset value per ordinary share 344p 324p 335p 331p 414p
Number of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC (in millions) 16,963 16,805 16,498 16,113 12,243

Year-end US Dollar exchange rate 1.23 1.48 1.56 1.65 1.62
Year-end Euro exchange rate 1.17 1.36 1.28 1.20 1.23
Year-end South African Rand exchange rate 16.78 23.14 18.03 17.37 13.74

Note
a Debt securities in issue include covered bonds of £13.9bn (2015: £12.3bn).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 243

Total assets
Total assets increased £93bn to £1,213bn.

Cash and balances at central banks and items in the course of collection 
from other banks increased £53bn to £102bn, as the cash contribution 
to the Group liquidity pool was increased.

Trading portfolio assets increased £3bn to £80bn primarily driven by 
client activity and the appreciation of USD against GBP, partially offset by 
reduction due to firm strategy. 

Financial assets designated at fair value increased by £2bn to £79bn. 
During the period, reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair 
value have increased by £14bn as new reverse repurchase agreements  
in certain businesses have been designated at fair value to better align  
to the way the business manages the portfolio's risk and performance. 
Additionally, within financial assets designated at fair value, there was a 
partial offset by decreases in loans and advances, equity securities, debt 
securities and assets held in respect of linked liabilities.

Derivative financial instrument assets increased £19bn to £347bn, 
consistent with the increase in derivative financial instrument liabilities. 
The increase was primarily due to foreign exchange derivatives mainly 
driven by an increase in trade volumes and appreciation of all major 
currencies against GBP.

Financial investments decreased £27bn to £63bn due to a decrease  
in government bonds held in the liquidity pool.

Total loans and advances decreased by £5bn to £436bn driven by a 
£31bn decrease due to the reclassification of BAGL balances to held for 
sale and £9bn from the exit of other assets in Non-Core. This was offset 
by lending growth of £20bn, a net £9bn increase in settlement and cash 
collateral balances, and an £8bn increase due to the reclassification of 
ESHLA loans now recognised at amortised cost.

Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 
decreased £15bn to £13bn mainly due to maturity of trades within 
amortised cost. New trades are designated as fair value through profit 
and loss to better align to the way the business manages the portfolio's 
risk and performance.

Non current assets classified as held for disposal increased £64bn to 
£71bn mainly due to the reclassification of BAGL to held for sale. 

Total liabilities
Total liabilities increased £88bn to £1,142bn.

Customer accounts increased £5bn to £423bn mainly due to deposit 
growth of £38bn and an increase in settlement and cash collateral 
balances of £5bn offset by reclassification of £29bn of BAGL balances  
to held for sale and an £8bn decrease due to Non-Core disposals. 

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing decreased 
£5bn to £20bn in line with Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending described above.

Trading portfolio liabilities increased £1bn to £35bn primarily driven  
by client demand and the appreciation of the USD against GBP.

Financial liabilities designated at fair value increased by £4bn to £96bn. 
During the period, repurchase agreements designated at fair value have 
increased by £5bn and debt securities at fair value by £2bn, which was 
partially offset due by decreases in liabilities to customer under 
investment contracts and deposits at fair value.

Derivative financial instrument liabilities increased £16bn to £340bn 
in line with the increase in derivative financial assets.

Debt Securities in issue increased by £7bn to £76bn driven primarily by 
an increase in liquidity requirements and currency revaluations partially 
offset by the reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale.

Subordinated liabilities increased £2bn to £23bn due to issuances of 
dated subordinated notes and FX movements due to the appreciation  
of USD and EUR against GBP. These were partially offset by the 
redemptions of dated and undated subordinated notes, and the 
reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale.

Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities decreased £2bn to 
£9bn mainly driven by a reduction in insurance contract liabilities.

Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale  
increased £59bn to £65bn mainly due to the reclassification of BAGL  
to held for sale.

Shareholders' equity
Total shareholders' equity increased by £6bn to £71bn.

Share capital and share premium increased by £0.3bn to £21.8bn due to 
the issuance of shares under employee share schemes and the Barclays 
PLC scrip dividend programme. 

Other equity instruments increased by £1.1bn to £6.4bn due to issuance 
of equity accounted AT1 securities to investors.

As at 31 December 2016 there was a debit balance of £0.1bn (2015: 
£0.3bn credit) in the available for sale reserve. The decrease of £0.4bn 
(2015: £0.2bn decrease) was due to a £2.2bn gain from changes in fair 
value on Government Bonds, predominantly held in the liquidity pool 
which was more than offset by £1.7bn of losses from related hedging 
and £0.9bn of net gains transferred to net profit, mainly due to £0.6bn 
purchase of Visa Europe by Visa Inc. A tax charge of £28m was 
recognised in the period relating to these items.

The cash flow hedging reserve increased £0.8bn to £2.1bn driven by 
£1.6bn increase in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for hedging 
purposes as forward interest rates decreased, partially offset by 
decreases of £0.5bn due to gains recycled to the income statement  
and £0.3bn tax charge.

The currency translation reserve increased by £3.7bn to £3.1bn due to 
the appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP.

Net tangible asset value per share increased to 290p (2015: 275p).  
This increase was mainly attributable to favourable movements in the 
currency translation reserve partially offset by pension remeasurement.

Balance sheet commentary

Financial review
Strateg

ic rep
ort

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

ents
S

h
areh

old
er inform

ation

<Page End><Page Start>
244 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Segmental analysis (audited)
Analysis of results by business

Barclays 
UK 
£m

Barclays 
International 

£m

Head
 Office

£m

Barclays 
Core

£m

Barclays 
Non-Core

£m

Group 
results

£m

For the year ended 31 December 2016
Total income 7,517 14,995 103 22,615 (1,164) 21,451
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (896) (1,355) – (2,251) (122) (2,373)
Net operating income 6,621 13,640 103 20,364 (1,286) 19,078
Operating expenses (3,792) (9,129) (135) (13,056) (1,509) (14,565)
UK bank levy (48) (284) (2) (334) (76) (410)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (48) (27) (1,117) (246) (1,363)
Total operating expenses (4,882) (9,461) (164) (14,507) (1,831) (16,338)
Other net (expenses)/incomea (1) 32 128 159 331 490
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 1,738 4,211 67 6,016 (2,786) 3,230
Total assets (£bn)b 209.6 648.5 75.2 933.4 279.7 1,213.1

For the year ended 31 December 2015
Total income 7,343 13,747 338 21,428 612 22,040
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (706) (922) – (1,628) (134) (1,762)
Net operating income 6,637 12,825 338 19,800 478 20,278
Operating expenses (3,464) (8,029) (272) (11,765) (1,958) (13,723)
UK bank levy (77) (253) (8) (338) (88) (426)
Litigation and conduct (2,511) (1,310) (66) (3,887) (500) (4,387)
Total operating expenses (6,052) (9,592) (346) (15,990) (2,546) (18,536)
Other net income/(expenses)a – 45 (106) (61) (535) (596)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 585 3,278 (114) 3,749 (2,603) 1,146
Total assets (£bn)b 202.5 532.2 59.4 794.2 325.8 1,120.0

For the year ended 31 December 2014
Total income 7,436 12,908 276 20,620 1,143 21,763
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (901) (679) – (1,580) (241) (1,821)
Net operating income 6,535 12,229 276 19,040 902 19,942
Operating expenses (4,108) (8,170) (70) (12,348) (2,611) (14,959)
UK bank levy (59) (248) (9) (316) (102) (418)
Litigation and conduct (1,108) (1,333) (65) (2,506) (301) (2,807)
Total operating expenses (5,275) (9,751) (144) (15,170) (3,014) (18,184)
Other net income/(expenses)a – 52 316 368 (813) (445)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 1,260 2,530 448 4,238 (2,925) 1,313
Total assets (£bn)b 198.0 596.5 61.0 855.5 502.4 1,357.9

Notable itemsc 

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Total income
Own credit (35) 430 34
Gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 615 – –
Revision of ESHLA valuation methodology – – (935)
Gains on US Lehman acquisition assets – 496 461
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer redress (1,000) (2,772) (1,110)
Provisions for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – (1,237) (1,250)
Operating expenses
Gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability – 429 –
Impairment of goodwill and other assets relating to businesses being disposed – (96) –
Other net expenses
Losses on sale relating to the Spanish, Portuguese and Italian businesses – (580) (446)
Total notable items (420) (3,330) (3,246)

Notes
a Other net (expenses)/income represents the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, profit (or loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures,  

and gains on acquisitions.
b Africa Banking assets held for sale are reported in Head Office within Core.
c Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.

Analysis of results by business
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 245

Income by geographic region (audited)

For the year ended 31 December 
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Continuing operations
UK 11,096 12,160 11,456
Europe 2,087 2,245 2,896
Americas 7,278 6,610 6,008
Africa and Middle East 419 387 627
Asia  571 638 776
Total 21,451 22,040 21,763

Income from individual countries which represent more than 5% of total income (audited)a

For the year ended 31 December 
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Continuing operations
UK 11,096 12,160 11,456
US 6,876 6,228 5,866

Note
a Total income based on counterparty location. Income from each single external customer does not amount to 10% or greater of the Group's total income.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
246 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Analysis of results by business

Barclays Core

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement informationa

Total income 22,615 21,428 20,620
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (2,251) (1,628) (1,580)
Net operating income 20,364 19,800 19,040
Operating expenses (13,056) (11,765) (12,348)
UK bank levy (334) (338) (316)
Litigation and conduct (1,117) (3,887) (2,506)
Total operating expenses (14,507) (15,990) (15,170)
Other net income/(expenses) 159 (61) 368
Profit before tax 6,016 3,749 4,238
Tax charge (1,975) (1,479) (1,590)
Profit after tax 4,041 2,270 2,648
Non-controlling interests (297) (266) (303)
Other equity interests (394) (282) (193)
Attributable profitb 3,350 1,722 2,152

Balance sheet information
Total assetsb £933.4bn £794.2bn £855.5bn
Risk weighted assetsb £333.5bn £304.1bn £312.8bn
Leverage exposureb £1,024.0bn £879.1bn £917.1bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 73,000 78,000 75,000

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 8.4% 4.8% 7.0%
Average allocated tangible equityb £41.0bn £36.8bn £31.4bn
Period end allocated tangible equityb £43.8bn £37.8bn £34.0bn
Cost: income ratio 64% 75% 74%
Loan loss rate (bps) 58 45 43
Basic earnings per share contribution 20.5p    10.7p 13.4p

Notable items
Total income
Own credit (35) 430 34
Gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 615 – –
Gains on US Lehman acquisition assets – 496 461
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer redress (1,000) (2,649) (1,035)
Provisions for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – (1,036) (1,250)
Operating expenses
Gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability – 429 –
Other net expenses
Losses on sale relating to the Spanish, Portuguese and Italian businesses – (112) 315
Total notable items (420) (2,442) (1,475)

Excluding notable items, the Core return on average allocated tangible equity was 9.4% (2015: 11.2%) and the Core basic earnings per share was 
23.1p (2015: 24.9p). 

Notes
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.
b Attributable profit in respect of the Africa Banking discontinued operation is reported at the Group level only. Assets held for sale, risk weighted assets, leverage exposure  

and allocated tangible equity are reported in Head Office within Core.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 247

Barclays UK

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement informationa

Net interest income 6,048 5,973 5,839
Net fee, commission and other income 1,469 1,370 1,597
Total income 7,517 7,343 7,436
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (896) (706) (901)
Net operating income 6,621 6,637 6,535
Operating expenses (3,792) (3,464) (4,108)
UK bank levy (48) (77) (59)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (2,511) (1,108)
Total operating expenses (4,882) (6,052) (5,275)
Other net expenses (1) – –
Profit before tax 1,738 585 1,260
Attributable profit/(loss) 828 (47) 852

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £166.4bn £166.1bn £165.3bn
Total assets £209.6bn £202.5bn £198.0bn
Customer deposits £189.0bn £176.8bn £168.3bn
Risk weighted assets £67.5bn £69.5bn £69.3bn

Key facts
Average LTV of mortgage portfoliob 48% 49% 52%
Average LTV of new mortgage lendingb 63% 64% 65%
Number of branches 1,305 1,362 1,488
Barclays mobile banking customers 5.7m 4.7m 3.6m
30 day arrears rate – Barclaycard Consumer UK 1.9% 2.3% 2.5%
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 36,000 38,800 38,300

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 9.6% (0.3%) 9.5%
Average allocated tangible equity £8.9bn £9.3bn £9.1bn
Cost: income ratio 65% 82% 71%
Loan loss rate (bps) 52 42 53
Loan: deposit ratio 88% 94% 98%
Net interest margin 3.62% 3.56% n/a

Notable Items
Total income
Gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 151 – –
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer redress (1,000) (2,431) (1,067)
Operating expenses
Gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability – 296 –
Total notable items (849) (2,135) (1,067)

Excluding notable items, the Barclays UK return on average allocated tangible equity was 19.3% (2015: 21.1%).

Notes
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.
b Average LTV of mortgage portfolio and new mortgage lending calculated on the balance weighted basis.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
248 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Analysis of Barclays UK
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Analysis of total income
Personal Banking 3,891 3,714 3,788
Barclaycard Consumer UK 2,022 2,065 2,078
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking 1,604 1,564 1,570
Total income 7,517 7,343 7,436

Analysis of credit impairment charges and other provisions
Personal Banking (183) (194) (211)
Barclaycard Consumer UK (683) (488) (592)
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking (30) (24) (98)
Total credit impairment charges and other provisions (896) (706) (901)

Analysis of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Personal Banking £135.0bn £134.0bn £133.8bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK £16.5bn £16.2bn £15.8bn
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking £14.9bn £15.9bn £15.7bn
Total loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £166.4bn £166.1bn £165.3bn

Analysis of customer deposits
Personal Banking £139.3bn £131.0bn £124.5bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK – – –
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking £49.7bn £45.8bn £43.8bn
Total customer deposits £189.0bn £176.8bn £168.3bn

Analysis of results by business

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 249

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased £1,153m to £1,738m reflecting lower 
provisions for UK customer redress. Profit before tax excluding notable 
itemsa decreased 5% to £2,587m driven by an increase in credit 
impairment charges following the management review of the cards 
portfolio impairment modelling, partially offset by a reduction in total 
operating expenses. 

Total income, including a gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited recognised in Personal Banking and Wealth, 
Entrepreneurs & Business Banking (WEBB), increased 2% to £7,517m. 

Total income excluding notable items was broadly in line at £7,366m 
(2015: £7,343m). Personal Banking income increased 1% to £3,762m 
driven by improved deposit margins and balance growth, partially offset 
by lower mortgage margins. Barclaycard Consumer UK income 
decreased 2% to £2,022m primarily as a result of the European 
Interchange Fee Regulation, which came into full effect from December 
2015, offset by balance growth and gains from debt sales. WEBB income 
increased 1% to £1,582m reflecting improved margins and deposit 
growth, partially offset by reduced transactional fee income. Net interest 
income increased 1% to £6,048m due to balance growth and deposit 
pricing initiatives, partially offset by lower mortgage margins. 

Net interest margin increased 6bps to 3.62% reflecting higher margins 
on deposits, partially offset by lower mortgage margins. Net fee, 
commission and other income decreased 4% to £1,318m due to the 
impact of the European Interchange Fee Regulation in Barclaycard 
Consumer UK, which came into full effect from December 2015, and 
reduced fee and commission income in WEBB. 

Credit impairment charges increased 27% to £896m due to a £200m 
charge in Q316 following the management review of the cards portfolio 
impairment modelling. The 30 day and 90 day arrears rates on the cards 
portfolio improved year-on-year to 1.9% (2015: 2.3%) and 0.9% (2015: 
1.2%) respectively.

Total operating expenses, including provisions for UK customer redress 
of £1,000m (2015: £2,431m), reduced 19% to £4,882m. Total operating 
expenses excluding notable items reduced 1% to £3,882m reflecting 
savings realised from strategic cost programmes, relating to 
restructuring of the branch network and technology improvements, 
offset by structural reform programme implementation costs. 

The cost: income ratio excluding notable items was 53% (2015: 53%) 
and RoTE excluding notable items was 19.3% (2015: 21.1%).

Loans and advances to customers were stable at £166.4bn (December 
2015: £166.1bn).

Total assets increased £7.1bn to £209.6bn primarily reflecting an 
increase in the allocated liquidity pool.

Customer deposits increased 7% to £189.0bn primarily driven by higher 
balances in Personal Banking and WEBB.

RWAs reduced £2.0bn to £67.5bn primarily driven by changes in the 
mortgages credit risk model.

2015 compared to 2014
Profit before tax decreased 54% to £585m. Profit before tax excluding 
notable items increased 17% to £2,720m driven by the continued 
reduction in operating expenses and lower credit impairment charges. 
The reduction in operating expenses was delivered through strategic 
cost programmes including the restructure of the branch network and 
technology improvements to increase automation.

Total income reduced 1% to £7,343m. 

Personal Banking income decreased 2% to £3,714m due to a reduction 
in fee income and mortgage margin pressure, partially offset by 
improved deposit margins and balance growth.

Barclaycard Consumer UK income decreased 1% to £2,065m primarily 
due to the impact of the European Interchange Fee Regulation, partially 
offset by balance growth.

WEBB income remained broadly flat at £1,564m (2014: £1,570m)  
as balance growth was offset by margin pressure. 

Net interest income increased 2% to £5,973m due to balance growth, 
deposit pricing initiatives and the impact of changes in the overdraft 
proposition in June 2014, partially offset by mortgage margin pressure. 
Net fee, commission and other income decreased 14% to £1,370m due 
to the change in the overdraft proposition and the impact of the 
European Interchange Fee Regulation.

Credit impairment charges decreased 22% to £706m primarily due to 
the benign economic environment in the UK resulting in lower default 
rates and charges across all businesses. The loan loss rate reduced 
11bps to 42bps.

Total operating expenses increased 15% to £6,052m, including 
provisions for UK customer redress of £2,431m (2014: £1,067m). Total 
operating expenses excluding notable items reduced 7% to £3,917m 
reflecting savings realised from strategic cost programmes including the 
restructure of the branch network and technology improvements. 

Loans and advances to customers remained broadly flat at £166.1bn 
(2014: £165.3bn).

Total assets increased 2% to £202.5bn.

Customer deposits increased 5% to £176.8bn driven by higher balances 
in Personal Banking and WEBB. 

RWAs were broadly flat at £69.5bn (2014: £69.3bn).

Note
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
250 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Analysis of results by business

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement informationa

Net interest income 4,512 4,324 3,874
Net trading income 4,580 3,782 3,533
Net fee, commission and other income 5,903 5,641 5,501
Total income 14,995 13,747 12,908
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (1,355) (922) (679)
Net operating income 13,640 12,825 12,229
Operating expenses (9,129) (8,029) (8,170)
UK bank levy (284) (253) (248)
Litigation and conduct (48) (1,310) (1,333)
Total operating expenses (9,461) (9,592) (9,751)
Other net income 32 45 52
Profit before tax 4,211 3,278 2,530
Attributable profit 2,412 1,758 926

 
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised costb £211.3bn £184.1bn £193.6bn
Trading portfolio assets £73.2bn £61.9bn £87.3bn
Derivative financial instrument assets £156.2bn £111.5bn £149.6bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities £160.6bn £119.0bn £157.3bn
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending £13.4bn £24.7bn £62.9bn
Financial assets designated at fair value £62.3bn £46.8bn £5.7bn
Total assets £648.5bn £532.2bn £596.5bn
Customer depositsc £216.2bn £185.6bn £188.2bn
Risk weighted assets £212.7bn £194.8bn £201.7bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 36,900 39,100 36,600

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 9.8% 7.2% 3.8%
Average allocated tangible equity £25.5bn £24.9bn £25.0bn
Cost: income ratio 63% 70% 76%
Loan loss rate (bps) 63 49 35
Loan: deposit ratio 86% 88% 90%
Net interest margind 3.98% 3.80% n/a

Notable items 
Total income
Gains on US Lehman acquisition assets – 496 461
Gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 464 – –
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer redress – (218) 32
Provisions for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – (984) (1,250)
Operating expenses
Gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability – 133 –
Total notable items 464 (573) (757)

Excluding notable items, the Barclays International return on average allocated tangible equity was 8.0% (2015: 9.5%).

Notes
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.
b As at 31 December 2016 loans and advances included £185.9bn (December 2015: £162.6bn) of loans and advances to customers (including settlement balances of £19.5bn 

(December 2015: £18.5bn) and cash collateral of £30.1bn (December 2015: £24.8bn)), and £25.4bn (December 2015: £21.5bn) of loans and advances to banks (including 
settlement balances of £1.7bn (December 2015: £1.6bn) and cash collateral of £6.3bn (December 2015: £5.7bn)). Loans and advances to banks and customers in respect of 
Consumer, Cards and Payments were £39.7bn (December 2015: £32.1bn).

c As at 31 December 2016 customer deposits included settlement balances of £16.6bn (December 2015: £16.3bn) and cash collateral of £20.8bn (December 2015: £15.9bn).
d Barclays International margins have been restated to include interest earning lending within the investment banking business. 

Barclays International

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 251

Analysis of Barclays International
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Corporate and Investment Bank
Income statement information
Analysis of total income
Credit 1,185 824 792
Equities 1,790 1,912 1,956
Macro 2,304 2,108 1,950
Markets 5,279 4,844 4,698
Banking fees 2,397 2,087 2,115
Corporate lending 1,195 1,361 1,268
Transactional banking 1,657 1,663 1,594
Banking 5,249 5,111 4,977
Other 5 495 476
Total income 10,533 10,450 10,151
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (260) (199) (87)
Total operating expenses (7,624) (7,929) (8,279)
Profit before tax 2,650 2,322 1,787

Balance sheet information
Risk weighted assets £178.6bn £167.3bn £175.1bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 6.1% 5.4% 1.9%
Average allocated tangible equity £21.9bn £21.9bn £22.0bn

Excluding notable items, the CIB return on average allocated tangible equity was 6.1% (2015: 8.2%).

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Consumer, Cards and Payments
Income statement information
Total income 4,462 3,297 2,757
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (1,095) (723) (592)
Total operating expenses (1,837) (1,663) (1,472)
Profit before tax 1,561 956 743

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost £39.7bn £32.1bn £29.7bn
Customer deposits £50.0bn £41.8bn £37.9bn
Risk weighted assets £34.1bn £27.5bn £26.6bn

Key facts
30 day arrears rates - Barclaycard US 2.6% 2.2% 2.1%
Total number of Barclaycard business clients 355,000 341,000 340,000
Value of payments processed £296bn £271bn £236bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 31.4% 20.2% 17.8%
Average allocated tangible equity £3.6bn £3.0bn £3.0bn

Excluding notable items, the Consumer, Cards and Payments return on average allocated tangible equity was 19.1% (2015: 18.9%).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
252 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Analysis of results by business

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax increased 28% to £4,211m, including the gain on 
disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited. Profit before tax 
excluding notable itemsa decreased 3% to £3,747m driven by an 11% 
increase in total operating expenses, and a 47% increase in impairment, 
partially offset by a 10% increase in total income.

Total income excluding notable items increased 10% to £14,531m, 
including the appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP, with 
Consumer, Cards and Payments income increasing 21% to £3,998m  
and Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) income increasing 6% to 
£10,533m.

Markets income increased 9% to £5,279m. Credit income increased 
44% to £1,185m driven by strong performance in fixed income flow 
credit which benefitted from increased market volatility and client 
demand. Equities income decreased 6% to £1,790m with lower client 
activity in Asia and the simplification of the EMEA business, partially 
offset by improved performance in cash, derivatives and financing in 
H216. Macro income increased 9% to £2,304m driven by increased 
activity post the EU referendum decision and US elections. 

Banking income increased 3% to £5,249m. Banking fees income 
increased 15% to £2,397m driven by higher debt underwriting and 
advisory fees, partially offset by lower equity underwriting fees. 
Corporate lending reduced 12% to £1,195m due to losses on fair value 
hedges and the non-recurrence of one-off work-out gains recognised  
in Q215. Transactional banking was broadly flat at £1,657m (2015: 
£1,663m) as income from higher deposit balances was offset by 
margin compression.

Consumer, Cards and Payments income excluding notable items 
increased 21% to £3,998m driven by growth across all key businesses 
and the appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP.

Credit impairment charges increased 47% to £1,355m including  
the appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB credit 
impairment charges increased 31% to £260m driven by the impairment 
of a number of single name exposures. Consumer, Cards and Payments 
credit impairment charges increased 51% to £1,095m primarily driven 
by balance growth, a change in portfolio mix and a £120m charge  
in Q316 following a management review of the cards portfolio 
impairment modelling.

Total operating expenses excluding notable items increased 11%. CIB 
increased 12% to £7,624m. In addition to the appreciation of average 
USD against GBP this reflected an additional charge in Q416 relating to 
the 2016 compensation awards, higher restructuring costs, £150m of 
which related to reducing the real estate footprint in Q316, and higher 
structural reform programme implementation costs including those 
relating to the incorporation of the US Intermediate Holding Company 
(IHC) on 1 July 2016. These increases were partially offset by lower 
litigation and conduct costs. Consumer, Cards and Payments increased 
7% to £1,837m due to continued business growth and the appreciation 
of average USD and EUR against GBP, partially offset by lower 
restructuring costs.

The cost: income ratio excluding notable items was 65% (2015: 64%) 
and RoTE excluding notable items was 8.0% (2015: 9.5%).

Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost 
increased £27.2bn to £211.3bn with CIB increasing £19.7bn to £171.7bn 
due to increased lending and cash collateral and the appreciation of USD 
and EUR against GBP. Consumer, Cards and Payments increased £7.6bn 
to £39.7bn driven by appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP and 
growth in Barclaycard US, including the acquisition of the JetBlue credit 
card portfolio.

Trading portfolio assets increased £11.3bn to £73.2bn due to an increase 
in client activity and appreciation of major currencies against GBP.

Derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities increased £44.7bn to 
£156.2bn and £41.6bn to £160.6bn respectively, due to the appreciation 
of USD and EUR against GBP and decreases in forward interest rates.

Financial assets designated at fair value increased £15.5bn to £62.3bn 
and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending decreased 
£11.3bn to £13.4bn. Since 2015, new reverse repurchase agreements in 
certain businesses have been designated at fair value to better align to 
the way the business manages the portfolio's risk and performance.  
On a net basis reverse repos have increased by £4.2bn as a result of 
increased matched book trading.

Customer deposits increased £30.6bn to £216.2bn, with CIB increasing 
£22.6bn to £166.3bn primarily driven by increases in deposits cash 
collateral and the appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP. Consumer, 
Cards and Payments increased £8.2bn to £50.0bn driven by balance 
growth in Barclaycard US and Private Banking, and the appreciation of 
USD and EUR against GBP.

RWAs increased £17.9bn to £212.7bn, due to the appreciation of USD 
against GBP, and business growth, including the acquisition of the 
JetBlue credit card portfolio in Consumer, Cards and Payments.

Note
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 253

2015 compared to 2014
Profit before tax increased 30% to £3,278m. Profit before tax excluding 
notable itemsa increased 17% to £3,851m driven by a 6% increase in 
income, including the appreciation of average USD and EUR against GBP, 
with Consumer, Cards and Payments income increasing 20% to 
£3,297m and CIB income increasing 3% to £9,954m.

Markets income increased 3% to £4,844m. Credit income increased 4% 
to £824m driven by a higher contribution from credit flow trading and 
financing businesses. Equities income decreased 2% to £1,912m driven 
by lower client activity in EMEA equity derivatives, partially offset by 
higher performance in cash equities. Macro income increased 8% to 
£2,108m due to higher income in rates and currency products reflecting 
increased market volatility and client activity. 

Banking income increased 3% to £5,111m. Banking fee income reduced 
1% to £2,087m driven by lower equity underwriting fees, partially offset 
by higher financial advisory and debt underwriting fees. Corporate 
lending increased 7% to £1,361m driven by lower fair value losses on 
hedges and increased asset balances. Transactional banking income 
increased 4% to £1,663m primarily due to cash management income 
driven by higher balances with improved margins.

Consumer, Cards and Payments income increased 20% to £3,297m, 
driven by business growth in Barclaycard US and the appreciation of 
average USD against GBP.

Credit impairment charges increased to £922m (2014: £679m). 
Consumer, Cards and Payments credit impairment charges increased 
£131m to £723m primarily reflecting asset growth and updates to 
impairment model methodologies. CIB credit impairment charges 
increased £112m to £199m driven by a number of single name 
exposures.

Total operating expenses excluding notable items remained broadly 
in line at £8,523m (2014 £8,533m). CIB total operating expenses 
decreased 4% to £6,805m mainly due to a reduction in restructuring 
costs and lower litigation and conduct charges. Further cost savings 
were achieved from strategic cost programmes, including business 
restructuring, operational streamlining and real estate rationalisation, 
partially offset by the appreciation of average USD against GBP. 
Consumer, Cards and Payments total operating expenses increased  
17% to £1,718m due to continued investment in business growth, the 
appreciation of average USD against GBP and the impact of one-off 
items, including the write-off of intangibles assets of £55m relating to 
the withdrawal of the Bespoke product.

Cost: income ratio excluding notable items was 64% (2014: 69%) and 
RoTE excluding notable items was 9.5% (2014: 7.0%).

Loans and advances to banks and customers decreased £9.5bn to 
£184.1bn as CIB decreased £11.8bn to £152.0bn due to a decrease in 
settlement and cash collateral balances, partially offset by an increase of 
£2.4bn in Consumer, Cards and Payments to £32.1bn reflecting growth 
in Barclaycard US.

Derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities decreased £38.1bn 
to £111.5bn and £38.3bn to £119.0bn respectively, due to net trade 
reduction and increases in major interest forward curves.

Trading portfolio assets decreased £25.4bn to £61.9bn driven by balance 
sheet deleveraging, resulting in lower securities positions.

Financial assets designated at fair value increased £41.1bn to £46.8bn 
and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending decreased 
£38.2bn to £24.7bn. Since 2015, new reverse repurchase agreements in 
certain businesses have been designated at fair value to better align to 
the way the business manages the portfolio's risk and performance.  
On a net basis reverse repos have increased by £0.2bn as a result of 
increased matched book trading.

Customer deposits decreased £2.6bn to £185.6bn, with CIB decreasing 
£6.6bn to £143.7bn primarily driven by decreases in settlement and cash 
collateral balances, partially offset by an increase of £3.9bn to £41.8bn in 
Consumer, Cards and Payments, driven by the deposits funding strategy 
in Barclaycard US.

RWAs decreased £6.9bn to £194.8bn, within which CIB RWAs decreased 
£7.8bn to £167.3bn primarily due to a reduction in securities and 
derivatives, and improved RWA efficiency. This was partially offset by  
an increase of £0.9bn to £27.5bn in Consumer, Cards and Payments, 
primarily driven by the growth in the US cards business.

Note
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
254 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement informationa

Net interest income (183) (305) (216)
Net fee, commission and other income 286 643 492
Net operating income 103 338 276
Operating expenses (135) (272) (70)
UK bank levy (2) (8) (9)
Litigation and conduct (27) (66) (65)
Total operating expenses (164) (346) (144)
Other net income/(expenses) 128 (106) 316
Profit/(loss) before tax 67 (114) 448
Attributable profit 110 11 374

Balance sheet information
Total assetsb £75.2bn £59.4bn £61.0bn
Risk weighted assetsb £53.3bn £39.7bn £41.8bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 100 100 100

Performance measures
Average allocated tangible equity £6.5bn £2.6bn £(2.7bn)

Notable items
Total income
Own credit (35) 430 34
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – (52) –
Other net expenses
Losses on sale relating to the Spanish business – (112) 315
Total notable items (35) 266 349

2016 compared to 2015
Profit before tax was £67m (2015: loss of £114m). Profit before tax 
excluding notable itemsa improved from a loss of £380m to a profit  
of £102m.

Net operating income excluding notable items increased to £138m 
(2015: loss of £92m) primarily due to changes in net income from 
treasury operations.

Total operating expenses excluding notable items reduced to £164m 
(2015: £294m) primarily due to a reduction in structural reform 
implementation costs now allocated to the businesses.

Other net income excluding notable items increased to £128m  
(2015: £6m) primarily due to recycling of the currency translation 
reserve on the disposal of the Southern European cards business. 

Total assets increased £15.8bn to £75.2bn primarily driven by the 
appreciation of ZAR against GBP. 

RWAs increased £13.6bn to £53.3bn primarily driven by the appreciation 
of ZAR against GBP and the reallocation of operational risk RWAs from 
Non-Core associated with exited businesses and assets. 

2015 compared to 2014
Profit before tax reduced £562m to a loss of £114m. Profit before tax 
excluding the impact of notable items moved from a profit of £99m in 
2014 to a loss of £380m in 2015.

Net operating income excluding notable items reduced to a loss of £92m 
(2014: income of £242m) primarily reflecting the net expense from 
Treasury operations and the non-recurrence of gains in 2014, including 
net gains from foreign exchange recycling arising from the restructure of 
Group subsidiaries.

Total operating expenses excluding notable items increased £150m to 
£294m primarily due to costs relating to the implementation of the 
structural reform programme, partially offset by reduced litigation and 
conduct charges.

Total assets decreased £1.6bn to £59.4bn and RWAs decreased £2.1bn 
to £39.7bn primarily due to the depreciation of ZAR against GBP.      

Notes
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.
b Includes Africa Banking assets held for sale of £65.1bn (December 2015: £47.9bn) and risk weighted assets of £42.3bn (December 2015: £31.7bn). 

Head Office

Analysis of results by business

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 255

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement informationa

Net interest income 160 615 590 
Net trading income (1,703) (706) (590)
Net fee, commission and other income 379 703 1,143 
Total income (1,164) 612 1,143 
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (122) (134) (241)
Net operating income (1,286) 478 902 
Operating expenses (1,509) (1,958) (2,611)
UK bank levy (76) (88) (102)
Litigation and conduct (246) (500) (301)
Total operating expenses (1,831) (2,546) (3,014)
Other net income/(expenses) 331 (535) (813)
Loss before tax (2,786) (2,603) (2,925)
Attributable loss (1,916) (2,418) (2,659)

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised costb £51.1bn £51.8bn £70.7bn
Derivative financial instrument assets £188.7bn £213.7bn £288.9bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities £178.6bn £202.1bn £280.6bn
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending £0.1bn £3.1bn £50.7bn
Financial assets designated at fair value £14.5bn £21.4bn £25.5bn
Total assets £279.7bn £325.8bn £502.4bn
Customer depositsc £12.5bn £20.9bn £30.8bn
Risk weighted assets £32.1bn £54.3bn £89.1bn
Leverage exposure £101.5bn £148.7bn £316.4bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 5,500 9,900 15,000

Performance measures
Average allocated tangible equity £7.8bn £10.9bn £15.6bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £5.4bn £8.5bn £13.1bn
Loan loss rate (bps)  22 23 39

Notable items
Total income
Revision of ESHLA valuation methodology – –  (935)
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer redress – (123) (75)
Provisions for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange – (201) –
Operating expenses
Impairment of goodwill and other assets relating to businesses being disposed – (96) –
Other net expenses
Losses on sale relating to the Spanish business – (468) (761)
Total notable items – (888)  (1,771)

Analysis of total income
Businesses 485 1,139 1,503 
Securities and loans (638) (350) (318)
Derivatives (1,011) (177) (42)
Total income (1,164) 612 1,143 

Excluding notable items, the Non-Core basic loss per share was 11.3p (2015: 10.2p).

Barclays Non-Core

Notes
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.
b As at 31 December 2016 loans and advances included £38.5bn (December 2015: £40.4bn) of loans and advances to customers (including settlement balances of £0.1bn  

(December 2015: £0.3bn) and cash collateral of £17.3bn (December 2015: £19.0bn)), and £12.6bn (December 2015: £11.4bn) of loans and advances to banks (including  
settlement balances of £0.1bn (December 2015: £nil) and cash collateral of £12.1bn (December 2015: £10.1bn)).

c As at 31December 2016 customer deposits included settlement balances of £0.1bn (December 2015: £0.2bn) and cash collateral of £11.9bn (December 2015: £12.3bn).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
256 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Analysis of results by business

2016 compared to 2015
Loss before tax increased to £2,786m (2015: £2,603m). Loss before tax 
excluding notable itemsa increased to £2,786m (2015: £1,715m) driven 
by reduced income and increased losses resulting from continued 
progress on the rundown of Derivatives, Businesses and Securities and 
loans, partially offset by lower operating expenses and higher other net 
income primarily from business and country exits.

Total income reduced £1,776m to a net expense of £1,164m. 

Businesses income reduced £654m to £485m due to the impact of 
lower income following the completion of the sale of a number of 
income generating businesses and fees paid to Head Office relating  
to the termination of internal hedging and funding positions no  
longer required.

Securities and loans income decreased £288m to a net expense of 
£638m primarily driven by the impact of restructuring the ESHLA 
portfolio, the non-recurrence of a £91m provision release relating to a 
litigation matter in Q115 and portfolio rundown. Fair value losses on the 
ESHLA portfolio were £393m (2015: £359m). 

Derivatives income reduced £834m to a net expense of £1,011m 
principally reflecting the costs of running down the portfolio.

Credit impairment charges improved 9% to £122m due to lower 
impairment charges in European businesses. 

Total operating expenses excluding notable items improved 14% to 
£1,831m reflecting cost savings from ceasing certain investment 
banking activities in a number of countries and the completion of the 
sale of a number of businesses, partially offset by a c.£200m increase in 
restructuring charges, which totalled c.£400m.

Other net income excluding notable items of £331m (2015: net expense 
of £70m) included gains on the sale of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index 
Solutions, the Asia wealth and investment management business and 
the Southern European cards business, partially offset by the loss on 
sale of the French retail business of £455m. 

Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost 
decreased £0.7bn to £51.1bn due to the sale of the Asia wealth and 
investment management business, and the rundown and exit of 
historical investment bank assets, partially offset by the recognition  
of £8bn of ESHLA loans at amortised cost, following the restructure  
of LOBO loan terms.

Total assets decreased £46.1bn to £279.7bn due to lower derivative 
financial instrument assets which decreased £25.0bn to £188.7bn whilst 
derivative financial instrument liabilities decreased £23.5bn to £178.6bn 
mainly on continued rundown of the derivative back book.

Leverage exposure decreased £47bn to £101bn due to reduced potential 
future exposure on derivatives and trading portfolio assets.

RWAs reduced £22.2bn to £32.1bn despite the appreciation of USD and 
EUR against GBP, including a £10bn reduction in Derivatives, a £3bn 
reduction in Securities and loans, a £4bn reduction in Businesses RWAs, 
and a £4bn reallocation of operational risk RWAs to Head Office 
associated with business disposals and exits. 

2015 compared to 2014
Loss before tax decreased to £2,603m (2014: £2,925m). Loss before  
tax decreased excluding notable items £561m to £1,715m driven by 
continued progress in the exit of Businesses, Securities and loans, and 
Derivative assets. RWAs reduced £34.8bn to £54.3bn including a £13bn 
reduction in Securities and loans, £11bn reduction in Derivatives, and 
Businesses reductions driven by the completion of the sales of the 
Spanish and UK Secured Lending businesses.

Total income excluding notable items reduced £1,466m to £612m. 
Businesses income reduced 24% to £1,139m driven by the impact of 
lower income following the completion of the sale of businesses 
including the Spanish business, Barclays Wealth Americas and UK 
Secured Lending. Securities and loans income decreased 10% to a net 
expense of £350m primarily driven by fair value losses of £359m (2014: 
£156m) on the ESHLA portfolio, and the sale of businesses and portfolio 
rundown. Derivative income reduced £135m to an expense of £177m 
due to the active rundown of the portfolios.

Credit impairment charges improved 44% to £134m due to higher 
recoveries in Europe and the sale of the Spanish business.

Total operating expenses excluding notable items improved 28% to 
£2,123m reflecting savings from the sales of the Spanish business, 
Barclays Wealth Americas, and several principal investment businesses, 
as well as a reduction in conduct and litigation charges.

Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost 
decreased 27% to £51.8bn due to the reclassification of assets on the 
announced sale of the Portuguese and Italian businesses to assets held 
for sale, and the rundown and exit of historical investment bank assets.

Derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities decreased 26%  
to £213.7bn and 28% to £202.1bn respectively, largely as a result of 
trade reduction.

Total assets decreased £176.6bn to £325.8bn due to reduced reverse 
repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending, and lower 
derivative financial instrument assets.

Leverage exposure decreased £167.7bn to £148.7bn primarily in reverse 
repurchase agreements, potential future exposure on derivatives and 
trading portfolio assets.

RWAs reduced £34.8bn to £54.3bn driven by the sale of the Spanish 
business, the active rundown of legacy structured and credit products, 
and derivative trade unwinds. 

Note
a Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 257

On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its intention to sell down the 
Group's interest in BAGL. This sell down is intended to be to a level  
which will permit deconsolidation from an accounting and regulatory 
perspective, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals as required. 
On 5 May 2016 Barclays executed the first tranche of the sell down of 
the Group's interest in BAGL with the sale of 12.2% of BAGL's issued 
share capital. Following completion of the sale, Barclays' holding 
represents 50.1% of BAGL's issued share capital. 

The terms of the transitional services arrangements and related 
separation payments have been agreed with BAGL and submitted to 
relevant regulators as part of a request for approval for Barclays to sell 
down to below a 50% holding. These proposed separation terms include 
contributions totalling £765m, of which £27.5m was paid in 2016, with 
the remainder to be paid over the period through to completion of any 
initial sale of Barclays' stake in BAGL to below 50%. The majority of 
these funds would be used by BAGL to separate from the Barclays group, 
including termination of the existing Master Services Agreement, 
making investments in branding, operations and technology, and 
covering separation related expenses. In addition, Barclays will contribute 
an amount equivalent to 1.5% of BAGL's market capitalisation to a new 
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme, equating to 

approximately £130m at the 31 December 2016 share price and ZAR 
exchange rate, and expects to incur some additional operating expenses 
in respect of delivering the separation of the businesses under the 
transitional services arrangements.

These proposed contributions have been taken into account in assessing 
whether any impairment of the BAGL disposal group was required in the 
Group's balance sheet. No impairment of the BAGL disposal group was 
required at 31 December 2016, as the market value of BAGL less 
estimated costs to sell at the year-end share price and ZAR exchange 
rate was £8.4bn, which was greater than the carrying asset value of 
BAGL at that date of £7.3bn, plus the proposed costs of separation 
referred to above.

The Africa Banking business meets the requirements for presentation as 
a discontinued operation. As such, these results have been presented as 
two lines on the face of the Group income statement, representing the 
profit after tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued 
operation. Were the fair value of BAGL, based on its quoted share price, 
less estimated costs to sell, to fall below the carrying amount of the net 
assets of BAGL including goodwill on acquisition, a resulting impairment 
to Barclays' stake in BAGL would also be recognised through these lines.

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 2,169 1,950 1,994
Net fee, commission and other income 1,577 1,464 1,532
Total income 3,746 3,414 3,526
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (445) (353) (347)
Net operating income 3,301 3,061 3,179
Operating expenses (2,345) (2,091) (2,199)
UK bank levy (65) (50) (44)
Litigation and conduct – – (2)
Total operating expenses (2,410) (2,141) (2,245)
Other net income 6 7 10
Profit before tax 897 927 944
Profit after tax 591 626 653
Attributable profit 189 302 334

Balance sheet information £bn £bn £bn
Total assetsa 65.1 47.9 53.7
Risk weighted assetsa 42.3 31.7 36.7

Key facts
Period end – ZAR/GBP 16.78 23.14 18.03
Average – ZAR/GBPb 20.04 19.57 17.84
Barclays Africa Group Limited share price (ZAR) 168.69 143.49 182.00
Barclays Africa Group Limited number of shares (m) 848 848 848
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 40,800 41,500 42,300

Notes
a Africa Banking assets held for sale and RWAs are reported in Head Office within Core.
b The average rate is derived from daily spot rates during the year.

Discontinued Operation: Africa Banking

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
258 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Margins analysis
Total Barclays UK and Barclays International net interest income 
increased 5% to £10.3bn due to an increase in average customer assets 
to £274.6bn (2015: £268.8bn) with growth in Barclays International, 
while Barclays UK remained stable. Net interest margin increased 11bps 
to 3.76% primarily due to growth in interest earning lending within the 
cards portfolio of Barclays International and higher margins on deposits 
in Barclays UK.

Group net interest income decreased to £10.5bn (2015: £10.6bn) 
including net structural hedge contributions of £1.5bn (2015: £1.4bn).

Net interest margin by business reflects movements in the Group's 
internal funding rates which are based on the cost to the Group of 
alternative funding in wholesale markets. The internal funding rate prices 
intra-group funding and liquidity to appropriately give credit to 
businesses with net surplus liquidity and to charge those businesses in 
need of alternative funding at a rate that is driven by prevailing market 
rates and includes a term premium.

Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015

Net interest 
income

£m

Average 
customer 

assets
£m

Net interest 
margin

%

Net interest 
income

£m

Average 
customer 

assets
£m

Net interest 
margin

%

Barclays UK 6,048 167,233 3.62 5,973 167,599 3.56
Barclays Internationala 4,275 107,333 3.98 3,841 101,164 3.80
Total Barclays UK and Barclays International 10,323 274,566 3.76 9,814 268,763 3.65
Otherb 214 794
Total net interest income 10,537 10,608

Notes
a Barclays International margins have been restated to include interest earning lending within the investment banking business. 
b Other includes Head Office, Barclays Non-Core and non-lending related investment banking balances.

Analysis of results by business

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 259

Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures 
included in this document provide valuable information to the readers of 
the financial statements as they enable the reader to identify a more 
consistent basis for comparing the business' performance between 
financial periods, and provide more detail concerning the elements of 
performance which the managers of these businesses are most directly 
able to influence or are relevant for an assessment of Barclays PLC and 
its subsidiaries (the Group). They also reflect an important aspect of the 
way in which operating targets are defined and performance is 
monitored by Barclays' management.

Non-IFRS and IFRS performance measures may also be presented on  
an excluding notable items basis. Notable items are considered to be 
significant items impacting comparability of performance.

Any non-IFRS performance measures in this document are not a 
substitute for IFRS measures and readers should consider the IFRS 
measures as well. 

Non-IFRS performance measures glossary
Measure Definition

Barclays Core Barclays Core includes Barclays UK, Barclays International and Head Office. A reconciliation of Core statutory 
results and results excluding notable items is included on page 260.

Return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity

Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit in 
reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion of average shareholders' equity excluding 
non-controlling interests and other equity instruments adjusted for the deduction of intangible assets and 
goodwill. The components of the calculation have been included on pages 264 to 265.

Return on average allocated 
tangible shareholders' equity

Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit  
in reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion of average allocated tangible equity.  
The components of the calculation have been included on pages 264 to 265.

Period end allocated tangible 
equity

Allocated tangible equity is calculated as 11.5% of CRD IV fully loaded risk weighted assets for each business, 
adjusted for CRD IV fully loaded capital deductions, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, reflecting the 
assumptions the Group uses for capital planning purposes. Head Office tangible equity represents the 
difference between the Group's tangible equity and the amounts allocated to businesses.

Average tangible shareholders' 
equity

Calculated as the average of the monthly period end tangible shareholders' equity during the period.

Average allocated tangible 
shareholders' equity

Calculated as the average of the monthly period end allocated tangible shareholders' equity during  
the period.

Cost: income ratio Total operating expenses divided by total income.

Basic earnings/(loss) per share 
contribution (Barclays Core 
and Non-Core)

The calculation is consistent with the IFRS measure and applied to the Barclays Core and Non-Core: statutory 
profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit in reserves  
in respect of other equity instruments, divided by the Group basic weighted average number of shares.  
The components of the calculation have been included on page 266.

Loan loss rate Is quoted in basis points and represents total loan impairment divided by gross loans and advances to 
customers and banks held at amortised cost at the balance sheet date.

Loan: deposit ratio Loans and advances divided by customer accounts calculated for Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
Non-Core, excluding investment banking businesses. This excludes particular liabilities issued by the retail 
businesses that have characteristics comparable to retail deposits (for example structured Certificates of 
Deposit and retail bonds), which are included within debt securities in issue.

Notable items Notable items are considered to be significant items impacting comparability of performance and are shown 
for each of the business segments. A reconciliation between statutory results and results excluding notable 
items is included on pages 261 to 263 including relevant performance measures.

Net interest margin Net interest income divided by the sum of average customer assets. The components of the calculation have 
been included on page 258.

Tangible net asset value  
per share

Calculated by dividing shareholders equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments, 
less goodwill and intangible assets, by the number of issued ordinary shares. The components of the 
calculation have been included on page 266.

Non-IFRS performance measures

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
260 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Barclays Core reconciliation 

Barclays 
UK
£m

Barclays 
Interna-

tional
£m

Head 
Office

£m

Barclays
 Core

£m

Barclays 
UK
£m

Barclays 
Interna-

tional
£m

Head 
Office

£m

Barclays 
Core

£m

Barclays 
UK
£m

Barclays 
Interna-

tional
£m

Head 
Office

£m

Barclays 
Core

£m
for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Total income 7,517 14,995 103 22,615 7,343 13,747 338 21,428 7,436 12,908 276 20,620
Credit impairment charges 
and other provisions (896) (1,355) – (2,251) (706) (922) – (1,628) (901) (679) – (1,580)
Net operating income/
(expenses) 6,621 13,640 103 20,364 6,637 12,825 338 19,800 6,535 12,229 276 19,040
Operating expenses (3,792) (9,129) (135) (13,056) (3,464) (8,029) (272) (11,765) (4,108) (8,170) (70) (12,348)
UK bank levy (48) (284) (2) (334) (77) (253) (8) (338) (59) (248) (9) (316)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (48) (27) (1,117) (2,511) (1,310) (66) (3,887) (1,108) (1,333) (65) (2,506)
Total operating expenses (4,882) (9,461) (164) (14,507) (6,052) (9,592) (346) (15,990) (5,275) (9,751) (144) (15,170)
Other net (expenses)/
income (1) 32 128 159 – 45 (106) (61) – 52 316 368
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,738 4,211 67 6,016 585 3,278 (114) 3,749 1,260 2,530 448 4,238
Attributable profit/(loss) 828 2,412 110 3,350 (47) 1,758 11 1,722 852 926 374 2,152
Average allocated tangible 
equity (£bn) 8.9 25.5 6.5 41.0 9.3 24.9 2.6 36.8 9.1 25.0 (2.7) 31.4
Risk weighted assets (£bn) 67.5 212.7 53.3 333.5 69.5 194.8 39.7 304.1 69.3 201.7 41.8 312.8

Notable items 
Total income
Own credit  – – (35) (35) – – 430 430 – – 34 34
Gain on disposal of 
Barclays' share of Visa 
Europe Limited  151 464 – 615 – – – – – – – –
Gains on US Lehman 
acquisition assets   – – – – – 496 – 496 – 461 – 461
Litigation and conduct
Provisions for UK customer 
redress  (1,000) – – (1,000) (2,431) (218) – (2,649) (1,067) 32 – (1,035)
Provisions for ongoing 
investigations and litigation 
including Foreign Exchange  – – – – – (984) (52) (1,036) – (1,250) – (1,250)
Operating expenses 
Gain on valuation of a 
component of the defined 
retirement benefit liability   – – – – 296 133 – 429 – – – –
Other net expenses 
Losses on sale relating to 
the Spanish, Portuguese 
and Italian businesses – – – – – – (112) (112) – – 315 315
Total notable items (849) 464 (35) (420) (2,135) (573) 266 (2,442) (1,067) (757) 349 (1,475)

Results excluding 
notable items
Total income 7,366 14,531 138 22,035 7,343 13,251 (92) 20,502 7,436 12,447 242 20,125
Credit impairment charges 
and other provisions (896) (1,355) – (2,251) (706) (922) – (1,628) (901) (679) – (1,580)
Net operating income/
(expenses) 6,470 13,176 138 19,784 6,637 12,329 (92) 18,874 6,535 11,768 242 18,545
Operating expenses (3,792) (9,129) (135) (13,056) (3,760) (8,162) (272) (12,194) (4,108) (8,170) (70) (12,348)
UK bank levy (48) (284) (2) (334) (77) (253) (8) (338) (59) (248) (9) (316)
Litigation and conduct (42) (48) (27) (117) (80) (108) (14) (202) (41) (115) (65) (221)
Total operating expenses (3,882) (9,461) (164) (13,507) (3,917) (8,523) (294) (12,734) (4,208) (8,533) (144) (12,885)
Other net (expenses)/ 
income (1) 32 128 159 – 45 6 51 – 52 1 53
Profit/(loss) before tax 2,587 3,747 102 6,436 2,720 3,851 (380) 6,191 2,327 3,287 99 5,713
Attributable profit/(loss) 1,685 1,961 135 3,781 1,961 2,320 (176) 4,104 1,707 1,734 114 3,555

Non-IFRS performance measures

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 261

Results excluding notable items

Barclays Core
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 10,377 – 10,377 9,993 – 9,993 9,496 – 9,496
Net fee, commission and other 
income 12,238 580 11,658 11,435 926 10,509 11,124 495 10,629
Total income 22,615 580 22,035 21,428 926 20,502 20,620 495 20,125
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (2,251) – (2,251) (1,628) – (1,628) (1,580) – (1,580)
Net operating income 20,364 580 19,784 19,800 926 18,874 19,040 495 18,545
Operating expenses (13,056) – (13,056) (11,765) 429 (12,194) (12,348) – (12,348)
UK bank levy (334) – (334) (338) – (338) (316) – (316)
Total operating expenses 
excluding litigation and conduct (13,390) – (13,390) (12,103) 429 (12,532) (12,664) – (12,664)
Litigation and conduct (1,117) (1,000) (117) (3,887) (3,685) (202) (2,506) (2,285) (221)
Total operating expenses (14,507) (1,000) (13,507) (15,990) (3,256) (12,734) (15,170) (2,285) (12,885)
Other net income 159 – 159 (61) (112) 51 368 315 53
Profit before tax 6,016 (420) 6,436 3,749 (2,442) 6,191 4,238 (1,475) 5,713
Attributable profit 3,350 (431) 3,781 1,722 (2,383) 4,105 2,152 (1,403) 3,555

Performance measures
Return on average allocated 
tangible equity 8.4% 9.4% 4.8% 11.2% 7.0% 11.2%
Cost: income ratio 64% 61% 75% 62% 74% 64%

Barclays Non-Core
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 160 – 160 615 – 615 590 – 590
Net trading income (1,703) – (1,703) (706) – (706) (590) – (590)
Net fee, commission and other 
income 379 – 379 703 – 703 1,143 (935) 2,078
Total income (1,164) – (1,164) 612 – 612 1,143 (935) 2,078
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (122) – (122) (134) – (134) (241) – (241)
Net operating (expenses)/
income (1,286) – (1,286) 478 – 478 902 (935) 1,837
Operating expenses (1,509) – (1,509) (1,958) (99) (1,859) (2,611) – (2,611)
UK bank levy (76) – (76) (88) – (88) (102) – (102)
Litigation and conduct (246) – (246) (500) (324) (176) (301) (75) (226)
Total operating expenses (1,831) – (1,831) (2,546) (423) (2,123) (3,014) (75) (2,939)
Other net income/(expenses) 331 – 331 (535) (465) (70) (813) (761) (52)
Loss before tax (2,786) – (2,786) (2,603) (888) (1,715) (2,925) (1,771) (1,154)
Attributable loss (1,916) – (1,916) (2,418) (707) (1,711) (2,659) (1,550) (1,109)

Note
a Refer to pages 246 and 255 for a breakdown of notable items.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
262 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Non-IFRS performance measures

Results excluding notable items

Barclays UK
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 6,048 – 6,048 5,973 – 5,973 5,839 – 5,839
Net fee, commission and other 
income 1,469 151 1,318 1,370 – 1,370 1,597 – 1,597
Total income 7,517 151 7,366 7,343 – 7,343 7,436 – 7,436
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (896) – (896) (706) – (706) (901) – (901)
Net operating income 6,621 151 6,470 6,637 – 6,637 6,535 – 6,535
Operating expenses (3,792) – (3,792) (3,464) 296 (3,760) (4,108) – (4,108)
UK bank levy (48) – (48) (77) – (77) (59) – (59)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (1,000) (42) (2,511) (2,431) (80) (1,108) (1,067) (41)
Total operating expenses (4,882) (1,000) (3,882) (6,052) (2,135) (3,917) (5,275) (1,067) (4,208)
Other net expenses (1) – (1) – – – – – –
Profit before tax 1,738 (849) 2,587 585 (2,135) 2,720 1,260 (1,067) 2,327
Attributable profit 828 (857) 1,685 (47) (2,008) 1,961 852 (855) 1,707

Performance measures
Return on average allocated 
tangible equity 9.6% 19.3% (0.3%) 21.1% 9.5% 18.9%
Cost: income ratio 65% 53% 82% 53% 71% 57%

Analysis of total income
Personal Banking 3,891 129 3,762 3,714 – 3,714 3,788 – 3,788
Barclaycard Consumer UK 2,022 – 2,022 2,065 – 2,065 2,078 – 2,078
Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business 
Banking 1,604 22 1,582 1,564 – 1,564 1,570 – 1,570
Total income 7,517 151 7,366 7,343 – 7,343 7,436 – 7,436

Results excluding notable items

Barclays International
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 4,512 – 4,512 4,324 – 4,324 3,874 – 3,874
Net trading income 4,580 – 4,580 3,782 – 3,782 3,533 – 3,533
Net fee, commission and other 
income 5,903 464 5,439 5,641 496 5,145 5,501 461 5,040
Total income 14,995 464 14,531 13,747 496 13,251 12,908 461 12,447
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (1,355) – (1,355) (922) – (922) (679) – (679)
Net operating income 13,640 464 13,176 12,825 496 12,329 12,229 461 11,768
Operating expenses (9,129) – (9,129) (8,029) 133 (8,162) (8,170) – (8,170)
UK bank levy (284) – (284) (253) – (253) (248) – (248)
Litigation and conduct (48) – (48) (1,310) (1,202) (108) (1,333) (1,218) (115)
Total operating expenses (9,461) – (9,461) (9,592) (1,069) (8,523) (9,751) (1,218) (8,533)
Other net income 32 – 32 45 – 45 52 – 52
Profit before tax 4,211 464 3,747 3,278 (573) 3,851 2,530 (757) 3,287
Attributable profit 2,412 451 1,961 1,758 (562) 2,320 926 (808) 1,734

Performance measures
Return on average allocated 
tangible equity 9.8% 8.0%           7.2%          9.5%          3.8% 7.0%
Cost: income ratio 63% 65%             70%          64%         76% 69%

Note
a Refer to page 247 and 250 for a breakdown of notable items.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 263

Analysis of Barclays International

Corporate and Investment Bank 
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total income 10,533 – 10,533 10,450 496 9,954 10,151 461 9,690
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (260) – (260) (199) – (199) (87) – (87)
Total operating expenses (7,624) – (7,624) (7,929) (1,124) (6,805) (8,279) (1,218) (7,061)
Profit before tax 2,650 – 2,650 2,322 (628) 2,950 1,787 (757) 2,544

Performance measures
Return on average allocated 
tangible equity 6.1% 6.1%          5.4%          8.2%          1.9%          5.6%

Consumer, Cards and Payments
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m

Total income 4,462 464 3,998 3,297 – 3,297 2,757 – 2,757
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions (1,095) – (1,095) (723) – (723) (592) – (592)
Total operating expenses (1,837) – (1,837) (1,663) 55 (1,718) (1,472) – (1,472)
Profit before tax 1,561 464 1,097 956 55 901 743 – 743

Performance measures
Return on average allocated 
tangible equity 31.4% 19.1% 20.2% 18.9% 17.8% 17.8%

Head Office
Statutory 

results
Notable

itemsa

Results
 excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

Statutory 
results

Notable 
itemsa

Results 
excluding 

notable 
items

for the year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.14

Income statement information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income (183) – (183) (305) – (305) (216) – (216)
Net fee, commission and other 
income 286 (35) 321 643 430 213 492 34 458
Net operating income 103 (35) 138 338 430 (92) 276 34 242
Operating expenses (135) – (135) (272) – (272) (70) – (70)
UK bank levy (2) – (2) (8) – (8) (9) – (9)
Litigation and conduct (27) – (27) (66) (52) (14) (65) – (65)
Total operating expenses (164) – (164) (346) (52) (294) (144) – (144)
Other net income/(expenses) 128 – 128 (106) (112) 6 316 315 1
Profit/(loss) before tax 67 (35) 102 (114) 266 (380) 448 349 99
Attributable profit/(loss) 110 (25) 135 11 187 (176) 374 260 114

Note
a Refer to page 254 for a breakdown of notable items.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
264 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Non-IFRS performance measures

Returns
Return on average allocated tangible equity is calculated as profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (adjusted for  
the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments) divided by average allocated tangible equity for the 
period as appropriate, excluding non-controlling and other equity interests for businesses. Allocated tangible equity has been calculated as 11.5%  
of CRD IV fully loaded risk weighted assets for each business, adjusted for CRD IV fully loaded capital deductions, excluding goodwill and intangible 
assets, reflecting the assumptions the Group uses for capital planning purposes. Head Office average tangible equity represents the difference 
between the Group's average tangible equity and the amounts allocated to businesses.



Year ended
31.12.16

£m

Year ended
31.12.15

£m

Year ended
31.12.14

£m

Attributable profit
Barclays UK 828 (47) 852
Barclays International 2,412 1,758 926
Head Office 110 11 374
Barclays Core 3,350 1,722 2,152
Barclays Non-Core (1,916) (2,418) (2,659)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Group 1,623 (394) (174)

Tax credit in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments £m £m £m
Barclays UK 29 14 17
Barclays International 83 42 23
Head Office (1) – (1)
Barclays Core 111 56 39
Barclays Non-Core 17 14 14
Africa Banking discontinued operation – – –
Barclays Group 128 70 54

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent £m £m £m
Barclays UK 857 (33) 869
Barclays International 2,495 1,800 949
Head Office 109 11 373
Barclays Core 3,461 1,778 2,191
Barclays Non-Core (1,899) (2,405) (2,645)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Group 1,751 (324) (120)

Average allocated tangible equity £bn £bn £bn
Barclays UK 8.9 9.3 9.1
Barclays International 25.5 24.9 25.0
Head Officea 6.5 2.6 (2.7)
Barclays Core 41.0 36.8 31.4
Barclays Non-Core 7.8 10.9 15.6
Barclays Group 48.7 47.7 47.0

Return on average allocated tangible equity % % %
Barclays UK 9.6% (0.3%) 9.5%
Barclays International 9.8% 7.2% 3.8%
Barclays Core 8.4% 4.8% 7.0%

Barclays Group 3.6% (0.7%) (0.3%)

Note
a Includes the Africa Banking discontinued operation.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 265

Returns excluding notable items
Year ended

31.12.16
£m

Year ended
31.12.15

£m

Year ended
31.12.14

£m

Attributable profit excluding notable items

Barclays UK 1,685 1,961 1,707
Barclays International 1,961 2,320 1,734
Head Office 135 (176) 114
Barclays Core 3,781 4,105 3,555
Barclays Non-Core (1,916) (1,711) (1,109)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Group 2,054 2,696 2,780

Tax credit in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments
Barclays UK 29 14 17
Barclays International 83 42 23
Head Office (1) – (1)
Barclays Core 111 56 39
Barclays Non-Core 17 14 14
Africa Banking discontinued operation – – –
Barclays Group 128 70 54

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent excluding notable items
Barclays UK 1,714 1,975 1,724
Barclays International 2,044 2,362 1,757
Head Office 133 (176) 126
Barclays Core 3,891 4,161 3,594
Barclays Non-Core (1,899) (1,697) (1,095)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Group 2,182 2,766 2,834

Average allocated tangible equity excluding notable items £bn £bn £bn
Barclays UK 8.9 9.3 9.1
Barclays International 25.5 24.9 25.0
Head Officea,b 6.8 2.9 (1.9)
Barclays Core 41.3 37.2 32.2
Barclays Non-Core 7.8 10.9 15.6
Barclays Group 49.0 48.1 47.8

Return on average allocated tangible equity excluding notable items % % %
Barclays UK 19.3% 21.1% 18.9%
Barclays International 8.0% 9.5% 7.0%
Barclays Core 9.4% 11.2% 11.2%

Barclays Group 4.4% 5.8% 5.9%

Notes
a Includes the Africa Banking discontinued operation.
b Excludes the cumulative post-tax impact of own credit.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
266 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review
Non-IFRS performance measures

Earnings per share
Year ended

31.12.16
£m

Year ended
31.12.15

£m

Year ended
31.12.14

£m

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parenta

Barclays Core 3,461 1,778 2,191
Barclays Non-Core (1,899) (2,405) (2,645)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Groupb 1,751 (324) (120)

£m £m £m

Basic weighted average number of shares 16,860 16,683 16,329

Basic earnings per ordinary sharea,b p p p
Barclays Core contribution 20.5 10.7 13.4
Barclays Non-Core contribution (11.3) (14.4) (16.2)

Barclays Group 10.4 (1.9) (0.7)

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent excluding notable itemsa £m £m £m
Barclays Core 3,891 4,161 3,594
Barclays Non-Core (1,899) (1,697) (1,095)
Africa Banking discontinued operation 189 302 334
Barclays Groupb 2,182 2,766 2,834

Basic earnings per ordinary share excluding notable itemsa,b p p p
Barclays Core contribution 23.1 24.9 22.0
Barclays Non-Core contribution (11.3) (10.2) (6.7)

Barclays Group 12.9 16.6 17.3

Tangible net asset value
Year ended

31.12.16
£m

Year ended
31.12.15

£m

Year ended
31.12.14

£m

Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 64,873 59,810 59,567
Other equity instruments (6,449) (5,305) (4,322)
Goodwill and intangiblesc (9,245) (8,222) (8,180)
Tangible shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling interests attributable to ordinary 
shareholders of the parent 49,179 46,283 47,023

£m £m £m

Shares in issue 16,963 16,805 16,498

                  p p p

Tangible net asset value per share 290 275 285

Notes
a Profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent includes the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments.  

The tax credit of £128m (2015: £70m) is allocated to businesses in proportion to the allocation of the payments in relation to the other equity instruments. 
b Includes the Africa Banking discontinued operation.
c 2016 includes goodwill and intangibles in relation to Africa Banking of £1,519m.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 267

Financial statements

Consolidated financial statements Page Note
■■ Presentation of information 268 n/a
■■ Independent Auditors' Report 269 n/a
■■ Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's report 276 n/a
■■ Consolidated income statement 277 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 278 n/a
■■ Consolidated balance sheet 279 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of changes in equity 280 n/a
■■ Consolidated cash flow statement 281 n/a
■■ Parent Company accounts 282 n/a
■■ Notes to the financial statements 284 n/a
■■ Significant accounting policies 284 1

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return ■■ Segmental reporting 289 2

■■ Net interest income 289 3
■■ Net fee and commission income 290 4
■■ Net trading income 290 5
■■ Net investment income 291 6
■■ Credit impairment charges and other provisions 291 7
■■ Operating expenses 293 8
■■ Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 293 9
■■ Tax 294 10
■■ Earnings per share 298 11
■■ Dividends on ordinary shares 298 12

Assets and liabilities 
held at fair value

■■ Trading portfolio 299 13
■■ Financial assets designated at fair value 299 14
■■ Derivative financial instruments 300 15
■■ Financial investments 303 16
■■ Financial liabilities designated at fair value 303 17
■■ Fair value of financial instruments 304 18
■■ Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 321 19

Financial instruments 
held at amortised cost

■■ Loans and advances to banks and customers 322 20
■■ Finance leases 322 21
■■ Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending 

and borrowing
323 22

Non-current assets and 
other investments

■■ Property, plant and equipment 324 23
■■ Goodwill and intangible assets 325 24
■■ Operating leases 327 25

Accruals, provisions, 
contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings

■■ Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 328 26
■■ Provisions 328 27
■■ Contingent liabilities and commitments 330 28
■■ Legal, competition and regulatory matters 330 29

Capital instruments, 
equity and reserves

■■ Subordinated liabilities 339 30
■■ Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity 342 31
■■ Reserves 343 32
■■ Non-controlling interests 343 33

Employee benefits ■■ Share-based payments 345 34
■■ Pensions and post retirement benefits 346 35

Scope of consolidation ■■ Principal subsidiaries 352 36
■■ Structured entities 353 37
■■ Investments in associates and joint ventures 356 38
■■ Securitisations 357 39
■■ Assets pledged 359 40

Other disclosure 
matters

■■ Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration 360 41
■■ Auditors' remuneration 362 42
■■ Financial risks, liquidity and capital management 362 43
■■ Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities 363 44
■■ Barclays PLC (the Parent Company) 365 45
■■ Related undertakings 366 46

Detailed analysis of our statutory accounts, independently audited and  
providing in-depth disclosure on the financial performance of the Group. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
268 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Presentation of information

Barclays approach to disclosures
The Group aims to continually enhance its disclosures and their 
usefulness to the readers of the financial statements in light of 
developing market practice and areas of focus. Consequently Barclays 
disclosures go beyond the minimum standards required by accounting 
standards and other regulatory requirements.

Barclays continue to support the recommendations and guidance made 
by the Enhanced Disclosure Taskforce (EDTF). The EDTF was formed 
by the Financial Stability Board with a remit to broaden and deepen the 
risk disclosures of global banks in a number of areas, including liquidity 
and funding, credit risk and market risk. Barclays has adopted the 
recommendations across the Annual Report and Pillar 3 Report.

In line with the Financial Reporting Council's guidance on Clear and 
Concise reporting. Barclays has focused reporting on material items 
and sought to reorganise information to aid users' understanding.

It is Barclays' view that best in class disclosures will continue to evolve in 
light of ongoing market and stakeholder engagement with the banking 
sector. Barclays is committed to engaging with a published Code for 
Financial Reporting Disclosure (the Code). The Code sets out five 
disclosure principles together with supporting guidance which states 
that UK banks will:

■■ provide high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures
■■ review and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for key 

areas of interest
■■ assess the applicability and relevance of good practice 

recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance 
of such guidance

■■ seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures 
across the UK banking sector and

■■ clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is 
audited and information that is unaudited.

British Bankers' Association (BBA) Code for Financial Reporting 
Disclosure
Barclays has adopted the BBA Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure 
and has prepared the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts in compliance 
with the Code.

Statutory Accounts
The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries are set 
out on pages 277 to 281 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC itself 
on pages 282 to 283. The accounting policies on pages 284 to 288 and 
the notes commencing on page 289 apply equally to both sets of 
accounts unless otherwise stated.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, 
in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies 
using IFRS.

On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its intention to sell down the 
Group's interest in BAGL. This sell down is intended to be to a level 
which will permit deconsolidation from an accounting and regulatory 
perspective, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals as required. 
As the Africa Banking Business meets requirements for presentation as a 
discontinued operation, these results have been presented as two lines 
on the face of the Group income statement, representing the profit after 
tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued operation.

Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV 
and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting 
Regulations 2013. The legislation requires Barclays PLC to publish 
additional information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016. 
This information is available on the Barclays website: barclays.com/
citizenship/reports-and-publications/country-snapshot.html 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 269

Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Barclays PLC's Group financial statements and Parent 
company financial statements (the “financial statements”):

■■ give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the Parent 
company's affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group's and the 
Parent company's profit and cash flows for the year then ended

■■ have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union and

■■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.

What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:

■■ the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheet as at 
31 December 2016

■■ the Consolidated and Parent Company income statement and 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year 
then ended

■■ the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statement for the 
year then ended

■■ the Consolidated and Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
for the year then ended and

■■ the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union, and applicable law.

Independent Auditors' report to the members of Barclays PLC

Independent Auditors' report

Our audit approach
Overview

Materiality

Areas of focus

Audit scope

Overall Group materiality:  
£320 million which represents 5% of Barclays Core profit before tax excluding notable items  
(as per the reconciliation on page 260). Barclays Core profit before tax excluding notable items  
is a key financial measure disclosed in the Financial Review. Notable items and Non-Core activities  
are excluded as they are not a true representation of the underlying performance of the business.

We planned and scoped our audit for 2016 reflecting the Group's reorganisation in response to the 
Group's new reporting segments disclosed in Barclays' restatement document published in April 2016. 

As a result we defined Barclays UK and the Investment Bank, which forms part of Barclays International, 
as significant components of the Group, subject to an audit of their complete financial information. 

For the remaining components, including the discontinued operation Africa Banking, we performed audits 
of specific financial statement line items and accounts based on the financial significance of the component.

The areas of focus for our audit to which we allocated the greatest amount of our resources and effort were:
■■ impairment of loans and advances to customers 
■■ valuation and accounting of financial instruments held at fair value
■■ conduct redress costs over PPI 
■■ litigation and regulatory provisions
■■ IT systems and controls over financial reporting and
■■ provision for uncertain tax positions.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
270 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).

We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for 
example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we addressed the risk of management 
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was 
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. 

The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as “areas of focus” in the table below. We set out how we tailored our 
audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the 
results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. All of these areas of focus 
were discussed with the Board Audit Committee. Their report on those 
matters that they considered to be significant financial statement 
reporting issues is set out on pages 60 to 62.

Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus

Impairment 
of loans and 
advances to 
customers

We focused on this area because the Directors 
make complex and subjective judgements over 
both timing of recognition of impairment and the 
estimation of the size of any such impairment.

In wholesale loans and advances, the material 
portion of impairment is individually calculated.  
For retail loans and advances, the material portion 
of the impairment is calculated on a modelled 
basis for portfolios of loans and advances.

We focused our audit on the following areas of 
impairment specifically relating to:

The key assumptions and judgements made by the 
Directors that underlie the calculation of modelled 
unsecured retail impairment (including in relation 
to a number of model methodology changes in 
2016). Key assumptions and judgements include 
the emergence period used for unidentified 
impairment and the probability of default 
calculation.

The post model adjustments recorded in response 
to a range of identified internal factors, such as 
known data and system issues impacting specific 
impairment models, and external factors such as 
the persistently low interest rate environment in 
the UK.

The completeness of the customer accounts 
that are included in the impairment calculation, 
including how unidentified impairment (customers 
that have had a loss event that has not yet 
manifested itself in a missed payment or other 
indicator) and forbearance are taken account of.

In addition for wholesale, we considered the 
impact of continued low oil, gas and commodity 
prices on the creditworthiness of relevant 
counterparties. 

See Notes 7 and 20 to the financial statements on 
pages 291 to 292 and 322 and the relevant parts 
of the Risk review to which they are cross referred.

We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the 
controls over impairment data and calculations. These controls included 
those over the identification of which loans and advances were impaired, 
the granting and monitoring of forbearance, the transfer of data (source 
systems to credit systems, credit systems to impairment models and 
model output to the general ledger) and the calculation of the 
impairment provisions. In addition we tested IT controls over the 
operation of the models, including restricted access and change 
management controls. We determined that we could rely on these 
controls for the purposes of our audit.

We tested the entity and business unit level controls over the end  
to end model process including in relation to model monitoring and 
validation, model inputs and outputs and management adjustments. 
We determined that we could rely on these controls for the purposes 
of our audit.

In addition, we performed detailed testing on a sample of new and 
existing models used to calculate both unidentified and identified 
impairment. This testing varied by portfolio, but typically included some 
combination of independent model rebuild, testing of the coding used 
in impairment models, reperformance of the calculation, testing the 
extraction of data used in the models including the ‘bucketing' into 
delinquency bandings, and testing and applying sensitivities to the 
underlying critical assumptions. 

We tested a sample of post model adjustments, including considering 
the basis for the adjustment, the logic applied, the source data used,  
the key assumptions adopted and the sensitivity of the adjustment to 
these assumptions. We assessed the completeness of post model 
adjustments. We found no material exceptions during our testing of the 
models and relevant controls.

Where impairment was individually calculated, we tested controls over the 
timely identification of potentially impaired loans. We determined that we 
could rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit. We tested a 
sample of loans and advances to ascertain whether the loss event (that is 
the point at which impairment is recognised) had been identified in a 
timely manner including, where relevant, how forbearance had been 
considered. Where impairment had been identified, we examined the 
business valuation or forecasts of future cash flows prepared by 
management to support the calculation of the impairment, challenging 
the assumptions and comparing estimates to external evidence where 
available. We found no material exceptions in these tests.

We examined a sample of loans and advances which had not been 
identified by management as potentially impaired and formed our own 
judgement as to whether that was appropriate including using external 
evidence in respect of the relevant counterparties. We found no material 
exceptions in these tests.

For customers with exposure to the oil, gas and commodity prices, 
we increased our sample testing of cases individually assessed for 
impairment, including those customers identified on the watchlist, and 
those that remained in the ‘good book'. In addition we tested relevant 
post model adjustments held and considered the completeness of the 
unidentified impairment provision for these customers. 

In the case of some impairment provisions, we formed a different view 
from that of management, but in our view the differences were within a 
reasonable range of outcomes in the context of the overall loans and 
advances and the uncertainties disclosed in the financial statements.

Independent Auditors' report
Independent Auditors' report to the members of Barclays PLC

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 271

Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus

Valuation and 
accounting of 
financial 
instruments held 
at fair value

One of the key areas of focus is the Education, 
Social Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA)  
loan books (£8.9bn) which require significant 
judgement in the valuation methodology due to 
limited availability of observable market data used 
to calibrate the funding and credit spreads forming 
the valuation.

During the year the Directors unilaterally waived 
certain complex option features on all ESHLA  
loans with such features. The Directors made a 
significant accounting judgement around the 
implication of this action and concluded it was a 
derecognition event for those loans. The Directors 
concluded the new loans should be booked at 
amortised cost.

The Directors make significant judgements 
because of the complexity involved in valuing some 
of these assets and liabilities. These judgements 
include: 

■■ The determination of significant unobservable 
inputs and the categorisation of financial 
instruments based on the IFRS 13 fair value 
hierarchy; 

■■ The calculation methodology and inputs of 
valuation adjustments including Funding Fair 
Value Adjustment (FFVA), although the 
judgement in this area has decreased as industry 
practice has become more standardised; and

■■ Where a long standing significant valuation 
disparity exists between the Group and a 
counterparty in relation to a specific long-dated 
derivative portfolio.

The Directors established that the methodology 
used in the above areas of judgement is 
appropriate.

See Notes 14 to 18 to the financial statements on 
pages 299 to 320.

In auditing the ESHLA loan portfolio that is carried at fair value we 
assessed the appropriateness of the valuation methodology and the 
level of observability in the market, including performing comparable 
credit spread research and comparing any observations to those used by 
management within the Credit Valuation Adjustment. We independently 
performed the valuation of a sample of loans and evaluated the 
appropriateness of ESHLA specific fair value adjustments.

 We tested the Director's judgements regarding the ESHLA loan 
derecognition event and evaluated management's technical accounting 
analysis. From our testing, we determined that the waiving of the 
complex options was a derecognition event. We tested the recording of 
the new loans at amortised costs and tested the controls applied to the 
new hedges for these loans and found we could rely on them for the 
purposes of our audit. 

For other judgemental or complex valuations, in general, we evaluated 
the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls 
supporting the identification, measurement and oversight of valuation 
and accounting risk of financial instruments. We examined the key 
controls, including the independent price verification process, model 
validation and approval process, controls over data feeds and inputs to 
valuation, the fair value hierarchy categorisation policy, and governance 
and reporting controls. 

We performed substantive testing over the following key areas.

We utilised internal valuation specialists to perform independent 
valuations to determine if management's valuations fell within a 
reasonable range. The revaluation covered a range of product classes 
and was performed across level 1, 2 & 3 of the Group's IFRS 13 fair  
value hierarchy. 

For valuations which depend on unobservable inputs, we evaluated  
the assumptions, methodologies and models used by the Directors.  
We performed an independent valuation of a sample of positions 
including those relating to the significant valuation disparity. 

Methodology and underlying assumptions of key valuation adjustments, 
including the Credit Valuation Adjustment, Debt Valuation Adjustment 
and Funding Fair Value Adjustment, were assessed, and compared with 
our knowledge of current industry practice. For FFVA, we evaluated the 
extent to which funding costs are incorporated into derivative valuation 
with reference to the limited observable transaction and other market 
data available.

We performed testing to validate that management had allocated 
financial instruments to the correct level (1, 2 or 3) within the fair value 
hierarchy in line with the established policy, and that the policy 
classifications were appropriate. 

We examined of collateral disputes, gains and losses on disposals and 
other events which could provide evidence about the appropriateness of 
the Director's valuations. We examined the valuation disparity in relation 
to the long-dated derivative portfolio.

Overall, in our view, in the context of the inherent uncertainties as 
disclosed in the financial statements, the accounting was appropriate 
and the valuations were within a reasonable range of outcomes.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
272 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus

Conduct redress 
costs over PPI

We focused on the £2bn Payment Protection 
Insurance customer redress provision as the 
measurement of the provision involves making 
significant judgement and estimates by the 
Directors. 

The Directors developed a PPI provision calculation 
methodology which involves making assumptions 
such as future complaints and redress costs. These 
assumptions are inherently difficult to estimate. 

A key factor impacting estimation uncertainty  
this year was the Financial Conduct Authority's 
consultation paper 16/20, in which the proposed 
timebar for consumer PPI complaints has been 
postponed by 12 months from June 2018 to June 
2019. The Directors had to make significant 
judgements in updating their PPI provision 
methodology to reflect the impact this, and other 
factors, have on the provision. 

See Note 27 to the financial statements on pages 
328 to 329.

We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key 
controls over the process of capturing key data used in the PPI provision 
calculation model. We determined that we could rely on these controls 
for the purposes of our audit.  

We examined the data capture, analysis and modelling process around 
the PPI provision calculation. We tested the nature, categorisation and 
history of claim volumes and settlement amounts and assessed whether 
the assumptions underpinning the provision calculations, including 
future claim volumes and settlement amounts, were appropriate.

We tested the appropriateness of the provisioning model and underlying 
assumptions used, in particular how management updated their 
provisioning model to quantify future complaint flows and the updated 
timebar. We developed and used our own model to run different 
provisioning scenarios and compared these to management's ranges. 
We found no material exceptions in these tests.

We evaluated whether the disclosures within the financial statements 
appropriately address the significant uncertainties that exist around 
determining the provisions and the sensitivity of the provisions to 
changes in the underlying assumptions and the impact of the proposed 
updated timebar, and found these to be appropriate.

We considered the sensitivity of the provision to possible variations in 
those assumptions. This could result in different amounts for some 
provisions to those calculated by the Directors, but in our view these 
differences were within a reasonable range of outcomes in the context of 
the degree of uncertainty.

Litigation and 
regulation 
provisions

We focused on this area because the Group is 
subject to challenge in respect of a number of 
legal, regulatory and competition matters, many of 
which are beyond its control. Consequently, the 
Directors make judgements about the incidence 
and quantum of such liabilities arising from 
litigation and regulatory or competition claims 
which are subject to the future outcome of legal or 
regulatory processes.

See Note 29 to the financial statements on pages 
330 to 338.

We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
controls over the identification, evaluation, provisioning and reporting of 
legal, regulatory and competition matters. We determined that we could 
rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit. 

In view of the significant judgements required, we examined the  
more material provisions in detail and sought additional evidence. We 
evaluated the Group's assessment of the nature and status of litigation, 
claims and provision assessments, if any, and discussed with internal 
counsel to understand the legal position and the basis of material risk 
positions. We received legal letters from the Group's external counsel 
setting out their views in some cases.

Specifically, we challenged the timing of recognition for cases where 
there is potential exposure but it is not clear that a provision should be 
raised e.g. when obtaining reliable estimates are not considered possible. 

We reviewed regulatory correspondence with US and UK regulators to 
identify potential regulatory investigations that could lead to the need  
for potential new provisions.

As set out in the financial statements, the outcome of litigation and 
regulatory claims are dependent on the future outcome of continuing 
legal and regulatory processes and consequently the calculations of the 
provisions are subject to inherent uncertainty. 

We evaluated whether the disclosures within the financial statements 
appropriately address the significant uncertainties that exist around the 
outcome of litigation and regulatory claims. In our view, the provisions 
had been arrived at based on the information currently available to the 
Group and after consideration of the legal advice received by the Group.

Independent Auditors' report
Independent Auditors' report to the members of Barclays PLC

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 273

Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus

IT systems and 
controls over 
financial 
reporting

We identified IT systems, and automated and IT 
dependent manual controls over financial reporting 
as an area of focus and an area that required more 
effort. The purpose of the work was to support our 
ability to rely on controls for the purpose of this 
report, as the Group's financial accounting and 
reporting systems are heavily dependent on 
complex systems. There is a risk that automated 
accounting procedures and related IT dependent 
manual controls are not designed and operating 
effectively. 

A particular area of focus related to logical access 
management including privileged access and 
developer access to the production environment. 
During the year, we identified a number of control 
deficiencies through the audit procedures 
performed in relation to access to financially 
significant infrastructure.

We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the 
controls over the continued integrity of the IT systems that are relevant 
to financial reporting. We examined the framework of governance over 
the Group's IT organisation and the controls over access to programs 
and data, program changes, IT operations and program development. 
Where necessary, we carried out direct tests of certain aspects of the 
security of the Group's IT systems including logical access management 
and segregation of duties.

Where controls failed either in design or operating effectiveness, 
we altered our audit approach and performed additional procedures,  
as follows:

■■ Identified compensating controls and tested that they operated 
effectively;

■■ Increased substantive procedures to mitigate the deficiencies found.
These additional procedures mitigated the deficiencies found and 
provided the additional audit evidence required. 

Provision for 
uncertain tax 
positions

We focused on this area because the Group is 
subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and, in 
many cases, the ultimate tax treatment is 
uncertain and is not determined until resolved 
with the relevant tax authority. Consequently, the 
Directors make judgements about the incidence 
and quantum of tax liabilities which are subject 
to the future outcome of assessments by the 
relevant tax authorities and potentially associated 
legal processes.

See Note 10 to the financial statements on pages 
294 to 297.

Our tax specialists examined the correspondence between the Group 
and the relevant tax authorities and between the Group and its external 
advisers. We examined the matters in dispute and used our knowledge 
of the law of the relevant tax jurisdictions and other similar taxation 
matters to assess the available evidence and the provisions made 
by Directors.

As set out in the financial statements, since the settlement of the 
Group's tax position is subject to future negotiation with various tax 
authorities, the calculations of the provisions are subject to inherent 
uncertainty. In our view, the provisions were within a reasonable range  
of outcomes in the context of that uncertainty. We evaluated whether 
the disclosures within the financial statements appropriately address any 
significant uncertainties that exist around determining the provisions.

How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough 
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the structure of the Group, the processes and controls 
over financial reporting, and the industry in which the Group operates. 

Component scoping
We planned and scoped our audit for 2016 reflecting the Group's 
reorganisation in response to the Group's new reporting segments 
disclosed in Barclays' restatement document published in April 2016. 
Management now distinguish their results between the Core  
business, which is the on-going operations of Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, and the Non-Core business, which they are looking to  
sell or run-down in the near future. Africa Banking is a discontinued 
segment as management expect to exit this business. The IFRS 8 
segments in the Core business were determined as Barclays UK, Barclays 
International and Head Office. For the purposes of scoping the audit, the 
audit components mirror key business divisions, rather than the 
reporting segments.

We deemed Barclays UK to be a financially significant audit component 
of the Group and subject to an audit of its complete special purpose 
financial information prepared for the purposes of Group consolidation.

In Barclays International we deemed the Investment Bank component to 
be a financially significant audit component of the Group and subject to 
an audit of its complete special purpose financial information prepared 
for the purposes of Group consolidation. We deemed that Corporate 
International, Barclaycard US and the other Consumer Cards and 
Payments businesses are not financially significant audit components 
and therefore were subject to an audit of specific financial statement line 
items or account balances. 

We performed an audit of specific financial statement line items or 
account balances over Head Office, which includes Treasury, Non-Core 
(including specified procedures over Italian mortgage impairment), and 
the discontinued operation of Africa Banking, including any gains or 
losses on the partial sell downs to date. 

We performed an audit of each of the material notable items disclosed in 
the Consolidated Summary Income Statement in the Financial Review on 
page 244, namely:

■■ Gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited
■■ Provisions for UK customer redress.

To obtain sufficient coverage we increased our scope on certain financial 
statement line items in comparison to our original plan. This was due to 
Africa Banking being classified as a discontinued operation, combined 
with the weakness of Sterling in comparison to the US Dollar and Euro 
following the EU referendum in June 2016 which required us to re-look at 
our coverage levels in the second half of the year.

We performed audit procedures over components comprising 85%  
of Group Total Income on an absolute basis and 91% of Group 
Total Assets. 

We performed Group level analytical procedures and testing of 
Group-wide controls that enabled us to determine that we did not 
need to obtain further audit evidence over the remaining population.

Involvement with component auditors
We determined whether the work would be performed by us (in relation 
to activity within the UK) or by other PwC network firms operating under 
our instruction (in relation to activity outside the UK). The most 
significant overseas territories are the US, South Africa and India. 

Where work was performed by component auditors from other network 
firms, our involvement in that work included visits to the component 
auditors including New York, Delaware, Johannesburg and New Delhi 
by senior members of the Group and component engagement teams, 
review of the results of their audit procedures including the nature, 
timing and extent of the work impacting the Group audit opinion and 
frequent communications by the Group engagement team to 
corroborate that our audit plan was appropriately executed. The nature, 
timing and extent of the work impacting the Group audit opinion is set 
and monitored in the UK, with input from the overseas team at the risk 
assessment stage.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
274 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our 
audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 

individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
financial statements as a whole. 

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the 
financial statements as a whole as follows:

Overall Group materiality £320 million (2015: £313 million).

How we determined it 5% of Barclays Core profit before tax excluding notable items. The performance of Barclays Non-Core and 
notable items (Own credit, gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited and provisions for UK 
customer redress) are disclosed in the Financial Review on page 244. 

Rationale for benchmark applied The use of the Barclays Core profit before tax excluding notable items is appropriate as it reflects the underlying 
business management is focusing upon and will be what is left once disposals from Non-Core have occurred. 
Adjusting for notable items is made on the basis that the Directors deem them to be historical in nature or do 
not reflect the performance of the Core business. Core profit before tax excluding notable items is a key measure 
of performance disclosed in the Financial Review.

We agreed with the Board Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above £15 million (2015: 
£15 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our 
view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors' 
statement, set out on page 94, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 

Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
Directors' statement about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 

As noted in the Directors' statement, the Directors have concluded that 
it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group 
and Parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year  
from the date the financial statements were signed. In drawing this 
conclusion, the Directors have considered the regulatory capital position 
of the Group as well as the funding and liquidity position of the Group.

As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors' use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future 
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group's and Parent company's ability to continue  
as a going concern.

Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable 
requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
■■ the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report 

for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and

■■ the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report have been prepared in 
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group 
and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of 
the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material 
misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report. We 
have nothing to report in this respect.

ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting

Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

■■ information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and 
Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or

 – otherwise misleading.

We have no 
exceptions to report.

■■ the statement given by the Directors on page 94, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group's and Parent 
Company's position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and Parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.

We have no 
exceptions to report.

■■ the section of the Annual Report on page 60, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work  
of the Board Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Board 
Audit Committee.

We have no 
exceptions to report.

Independent Auditors' report
Independent Auditors' report to the members of Barclays PLC

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 275

The Directors' assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group

Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:

■■ the Directors' confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

We have nothing 
material to add or to 

draw attention to.

■■ the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. We have nothing 
material to add or to 

draw attention to.

■■ the Directors' explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.

We have nothing 
material to add or to 

draw attention to.

Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors' statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal  
risks facing the Group and the Directors' statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 41. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors' process supporting their 
statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are 
consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.

Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations 
received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:

■■ we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or

■■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or

■■ the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Directors' remuneration
Directors' remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.

Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law 
are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.

Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of 
the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and  
fair view.

Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors.

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Parent company's members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.

What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 

■■ whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's and 
the Parent Company's circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 

■■ the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and

■■ the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors' 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.

We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 

In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. With respect 
to the Strategic Report and Directors' Report, we consider whether those 
reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.

Henry Daubeney (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 February 2017

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
276 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's report

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the 
related consolidated income statements, consolidated statements of 
comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flow statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries at 
31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, and the results of their 
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended 31 December 2016 in conformity with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all 
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 
31 December 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's 
management is responsible for these financial statements, for 
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for  
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting, included in management's report on internal control over 
financial reporting included in the Directors' Report appearing on page 
88 of the Annual Report to Shareholders. Our responsibility is to express 
opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We 
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (US). Those standards require 
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material 
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial 
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the 
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates  
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting 
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial 
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes 
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have  
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk 
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
London, United Kingdom
22 February 2017 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 277

Consolidated financial statements 
Consolidated income statement

For the year ended 31 December Note
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Continuing operations
Interest income 3 14,541 13,953 14,194
Interest expense 3 (4,004) (3,345) (4,108)
Net interest income 10,537 10,608 10,086
Fee and commission income 4 8,570 8,470 8,622
Fee and commission expense 4 (1,802) (1,611) (1,500)
Net fee and commission income 6,768 6,859 7,122
Net trading income 5 2,768 3,426 3,086
Net investment income 6 1,324 1,097 1,309
Other income 54 50 160
Total income 21,451 22,040 21,763
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 7 (2,373) (1,762) (1,821)
Net operating income 19,078 20,278 19,942
Staff costs 8 (9,423) (8,853) (9,860)
Infrastructure costs 8 (2,998) (2,691) (2,895)
Administration and general expenses 8 (2,917) (2,983) (3,069)
Provision for UK customer redress (1,000) (2,772) (1,110)
Provision for ongoing investigations and litigation relating to Foreign Exchange – (1,237) (1,250)
Operating expenses 8 (16,338) (18,536) (18,184)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 70 41 28
Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 9 420 (637) (473)
Profit before tax 3,230 1,146 1,313
Taxation 10 (993) (1,149) (1,121)
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,237 (3) 192
Profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation 591 626 653
Profit after tax 2,828 623 845

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 1,623 (394) (174)
Other equity holdersa 457 345 250
Total equity holders of the parent 2,080 (49) 76
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations 33 346 348 449
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operation 33 402 324 320
Profit after tax 2,828 623 845

Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 11 10.4 (1.9) (0.7)
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 9.3 (3.7) (2.7)
Basic earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation 1.1 1.8 2.0
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 11 10.3 (1.9) (0.7)



Note
a The profit after tax attributable to other equity holders of £457m (2015: £345m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £128m (2015: £70m).  

The net amount of £329m (2015: £275m), along with NCI, is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
278 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Profit after tax 2,828 623 845
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,237 (3) 192
Profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation 591 626 653
Other comprehensive income that may be recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations:
Currency translation reserve
Currency translation differences 3,024 748 774
Available for sale reserve
Net gains from changes in fair value 2,147 64 5,339
Net losses transferred to net profit on disposal (912) (374) (619)
Net losses/(gains) transferred to net profit due to impairment 20 17 (31)
Net (gains) transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging (1,677) (148) (4,074)
Changes in insurance liabilities 53 86 (94)
Tax (18) 126 (103)
Cash flow hedging reserve
Net gains/(losses) from changes in fair value 1,455 (312) 2,650
Net losses transferred to net profit (365) (238) (713)
Tax (292) 57 (384)
Other 13 20 (42)
Other comprehensive income that may be recycled to profit or loss 3,448 46 2,703

Other comprehensive (loss)/income not recycled to profit or loss:
Retirement benefit remeasurements (1,309) 1,176 268
Tax 329 (260) (63)
Other comprehensive income for the period 2,468 962 2,908
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax from continuing operations 4,705 959 3,100
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax from discontinued operation 2,111 (722) 346
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,816 237 3,446

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 5,233 45 2,755
Non-controlling interests 1,583 192 691
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,816 237 3,446

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 279

Consolidated balance sheet

Consolidated financial statements

As at 31 December Notes
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 49,711 39,695
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,467 1,011 1,210
Trading portfolio assets 13 80,240 77,348 114,717
Financial assets designated at fair value 14 78,608 76,830 38,300
Derivative financial instruments 15 346,626 327,709 439,909
Financial investments 16 63,317 90,267 86,066
Loans and advances to banks 20 43,251 41,349 42,111
Loans and advances to customers 20 392,784 399,217 427,767
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 22 13,454 28,187 131,753
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2,893 3,010 3,607
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 684 573 711
Property, plant and equipment 23 2,825 3,468 3,786
Goodwill and intangible assets 24 7,726 8,222 8,180
Current tax assets 10 561 415 334
Deferred tax assets 10 4,869 4,495 4,130
Retirement benefit assets 35 14 836 56
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 44 71,454 7,364 15,574
Total assets  1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 48,214 47,080 58,390
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 636 1,013 1,177
Customer accounts 423,178 418,242 427,704
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 22 19,760 25,035 124,479
Trading portfolio liabilities 13 34,687 33,967 45,124
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 17 96,031 91,745 56,972
Derivative financial instruments 15 340,487 324,252 439,320
Debt securities in issue 75,932 69,150 86,099
Subordinated liabilities 30 23,383 21,467 21,153
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 26 8,871 10,610 11,423
Provisions 27 4,134 4,142 4,135
Current tax liabilities 10 737 903 1,021
Deferred tax liabilities 10 29 122 262
Retirement benefit liabilities 35 390 423 1,574
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 44 65,292 5,997 13,115
Total liabilities 1,141,761 1,054,148 1,291,948
Total equity
Called up share capital and share premium 31 21,842 21,586 20,809
Other equity instruments 31 6,449 5,305 4,322
Other reserves 32 6,051 1,898 2,724
Retained earnings 30,531 31,021 31,712
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 64,873 59,810 59,567
Non-controlling interests 33 6,492 6,054 6,391
Total equity  71,365 65,864 65,958
Total liabilities and equity  1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906

The Board of Directors approved the financial statements on pages 277 to 374 on 22 February 2017.

John McFarlane 
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
280 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Called up
share

capital
and share
premiuma

£m

Other
equity 
instru-
mentsa

£m

Available 
for sale
reserveb

£m

Cash
flow

hedging
reserveb

£m

Currency
 translation

reserveb
£m

Other
reserves

 and
 treasury 

sharesb
£m

Retained
earnings

£m

Total
 equity

 excluding
non-

controlling
interests

£m

Non-
controlling

interests
£m

Total
equity

£m

Balance as at 1 January 2016 21,586 5,305 317 1,261 (623) 943 31,021 59,810 6,054 65,864
Profit after tax  – 457  –  –  –  – 1,434 1,891 346 2,237
Currency translation movements  –  –  –  – 3,022  –  – 3,022 2 3,024
Available for sale investments  –  – (387)  –  –  –  – (387)  – (387)
Cash flow hedges  –  –  – 798  –  –  – 798  – 798
Pension remeasurement  –  –  –  –  –  – (980) (980)  – (980)
Other  –  –  –  –  –  – 12 12 1 13
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
continuing operations  – 457 (387) 798 3,022  – 466 4,356 349 4,705
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operation  –  – (4) 46 652  – 183 877 1,234 2,111
Total comprehensive income for the year  – 457 (391) 844 3,674  – 649 5,233 1,583 6,816
Issue of new ordinary shares 68  –  –  –  –  –  – 68  – 68
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 188  –  –  –  –  – 668 856  – 856
Issue and exchange of other equity instruments  – 1,132  –  –  –  –  – 1,132  – 1,132
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (457)  –  –  –  – 128 (329)  – (329)
Redemption of preference shares  –  –  –  –  –  – (417) (417) (1,170) (1,587)
Increase in treasury shares  –  –  –  –  – (140)  – (140)  – (140)
Vesting of shares under employee share 
schemes  –  –  –  –  – 166 (415) (249)  – (249)
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  –  – (757) (757) (575) (1,332)
Net equity impact of partial BAGL disposal  –  –  –  –  –  – (349) (349) 601 252
Other reserve movements  – 12  –  –  –  – 3 15 (1) 14
Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051 969 30,531 64,873 6,492 71,365

Balance as at 1 January 2015 20,809 4,322 562 1,817 (582) 927 31,712 59,567 6,391 65,958
Profit after tax  – 345  –  –  –  – (696) (351) 348 (3)
Currency translation movements  –  –  –  – 747  –  – 747 1 748
Available for sale investments  –  – (229)  –  –  –  – (229)  – (229)
Cash flow hedges  –  –  – (493)  –  –  – (493)  – (493)
Pension remeasurement  –  –  –  –  –  – 916 916  – 916
Other  –  –  –  –  –  – 20 20  – 20
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
continuing operations  – 345 (229) (493) 747  – 240 610 349 959
Total comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operation  –  – (16) (63) (788)  – 302 (565) (157) (722)
Total comprehensive income for the year  – 345 (245) (556) (41)  – 542 45 192 237
Issue of new ordinary shares 137  –  –  –  –  –  – 137  – 137
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 640  –  –  –  –  – 571 1,211  – 1,211
Issue and exchange of other equity instruments  – 995  –  –  –  –  – 995  – 995
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (345)  –  –  –  – 70 (275)  – (275)
Redemption of preference shares  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Increase in treasury shares  –  –  –  –  – (602)  – (602)  – (602)
Vesting of shares under employee share 
schemes  –  –  –  –  – 618 (755) (137)  – (137)
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  –  – (1,081) (1,081) (552) (1,633)
Other reserve movements  – (12)  –  –  –  – (38) (50) 23 (27)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 21,586 5,305 317 1,261 (623) 943 31,021 59,810 6,054 65,864

Notes
a For further details refer to Note 31.
b For further details refer to Note 32.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 281

Consolidated cash flow statement

Consolidated financial statements

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Continuing operations
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 3,230 1,146 1,312
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Allowance for impairment 2,357 1,752 1,816
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 1,261 1,215 1,108
Other provisions, including pensions 1,964 4,241 3,487
Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment (912) (374) (619)
Other non-cash movements including exchange rate movements (20,025) 226 (595)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Net (increase)/decrease in loans and advances to banks and customers (25,385) 22,641 4,079
Net decrease in reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending 14,733 103,471 54,380
Net increase/(decrease) in deposits and debt securities in issue 49,064 (33,120) (2,319)
Net (decrease) in repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing (4,852) (99,602) (72,107)
Net (increase)/decrease in derivative financial instruments (2,318) (3,315) 2,961
Net (increase)/decrease in trading assets (5,577) 37,091 18,651
Net increase/(decrease) in trading liabilities 880 (10,877) (8,565)
Net decrease/(increase) in financial investments 807 (3,064) (5,882)
Net (increase) in other assets (2,629) (2,661) (14,642)
Net (increase)/decrease in other liabilities (532) (1,766) 8,092
Corporate income tax paid (780) (1,670) (1,552)
Net cash from operating activities 11,286 15,334 (10,395)
Purchase of available for sale investments (65,086) (120,061) (109,296)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 102,515 114,529 119,129
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (1,707) (1,928) (691)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 358 393 335
Proceeds from part disposal of investment in BAGL 595  –  –
Other cash flows associated with investing activities 32 516 (48)
Net cash from investing activities 36,707 (6,551) 8,429
Dividends paid (1,304) (1,496) (1,688)
Issuance of subordinated debt 1,457 879 848
Redemption of subordinated debt (1,143) (556) (869)
Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,400 1,278 559
Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments (1,587)  – (104)
Net purchase of treasury shares (140) (679) (909)
Net redemption of shares issued to non-controlling interests  –  – (746)
Net cash from financing activities (1,317) (574) (2,805)
Net cash from discontinued operations 405 (1,821) 1,809
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 10,473 1,689 (313)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 57,554 8,077 (3,275)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 86,556 78,479 81,754
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 144,110 86,556 78,479
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 102,353 49,711 39,695
Loans and advances to banks with original maturity less than three months 38,252 35,876 36,282
Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills with original maturity less than three months 356 816 2,322
Trading portfolio assets with original maturity less than three months  – 153 180
Cash and cash equivalents held for sale 3,149  –  – 

144,110 86,556 78,479

Interest received was £22,099m (2015: £20,376m; 2014: £21,372m) and interest paid was £8,850m (2015: £7,534m; 2014: £8,566m).

The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to £4,254m  
(2015: £4,369m; 2014: £4,448m).

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid 
investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of three months or less.  
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
282 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Parent company accounts 

Financial statements of Barclays PLC

Income statement

For the year ended 31 December Notes 
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Dividends received from subsidiary 621 876 821
Net interest income/(expense) 5 (7) (6)
Other income 45 334 227 275
Operating expenses (26) (6) (6)
Profit before tax 934 1,090 1,084
Tax (60) (43) (57)
Profit after tax 874 1,047 1,027
Attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders 417 702 777
Other equity holders 457 345 250

Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year was £874m (2015: £1,047m). There were no other components of total comprehensive 
income other than the profit after tax.

The Company has seven members of staff (2015: nil).

Balance sheet

As at 31 December Notes 
2016

£m 
2015

£m 

Assets
Investment in subsidiaries 45 36,553 35,303
Loans and advances to subsidiaries 45 19,421 7,990
Financial investments 45 1,218  – 
Derivative financial instruments 45 268 210
Other assets 105 133
Total assets 57,565 43,636

Liabilities
Deposits from banks 547 494
Subordinated liabilities 45 3,789 1,766
Debt securities in issue 45 16,893 6,224
Other liabilities 14  – 
Total liabilities 21,243 8,484

Equity
Called up share capital 31 4,241 4,201
Share premium account 31 17,601 17,385
Other equity instruments 31 6,453 5,321
Capital redemption reserve 420 394
Retained earnings 7,607 7,851
Total equity 36,322 35,152
Total liabilities and equity 57,565 43,636

The financial statements on pages 282 to 283 and the accompanying note on page 365 were approved by the Board of Directors on  
22 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by:

John McFarlane
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 283

Statement of changes in equity 

Notes

Called up 
share capital

 and share
 premium

£m

Other equity
 instruments

£m

Capital
 redemption

 reserve
£m

Available for
 sale reserve

£m

Retained 
earnings

£m
Total equity

£m

Balance as at 1 January 2016 21,586 5,321 394  – 7,851 35,152
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income  – 457  –  – 417 874
Issue of new ordinary shares 68  –  –  –  – 68
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 188  –  –  –  – 188
Issue of other equity instruments  – 1,132  –  –  – 1,132
Dividends 12  –  –  –  – (757) (757)
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (457)  –  – 91 (366)
Other  –  –  – 26 5 31
Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,453 394 26 7,607 36,322

Balance as at 1 January 2015 20,809 4,326 394  – 8,163 33,692
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income  – 345  –  – 702 1,047
Issue of new ordinary shares 137  –  –  –  – 137
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 640  –  –  –  – 640
Issue of other equity instruments  – 995  –  –  – 995
Dividends 12  –  –  –  – (1,081) (1,081)
Other equity instruments coupons paid  – (345)  –  – 70 (275)
Other  –  –  –  – (3) (3)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 21,586 5,321 394  – 7,851 35,152

Cash flow statement

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 934 1,090 1,084
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 37 100 734
Other non-cash movements 62 52 (43)
Corporate income tax (paid)/received  – (27) 38
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,033 1,215 1,813
Capital contribution to subsidiary (1,250) (1,560) (3,684)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,250) (1,560) (3,684)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,388 1,771 3,185
Net (increase) in loans and advances to bank subsidiaries of the Parent (10,942) (4,973) (2,866)
Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 9,314 4,052 2,056
Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of subordinated debt 1,671 921 803
Dividends paid (757) (1,081) (1,057)
Coupons paid on AT1 instruments (457) (345) (250)
Net cash generated from financing activities 217 345 1,871
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  –  –  – 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  –  –  – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  –  –  – 

Net cash generated from operating activities includes:
Dividends received 621 876 821
Interest received/(paid) 5 (7) (6)

The Parent Company's principal activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Barclays Bank PLC and Group Service Company. 
Dividends received are treated as operating income.  

The Company was not exposed at 31 December 2016 or 2015 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds, which comprised 
loans and advances and other assets which had no market risk or material credit risk.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
284 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2016

This section describes Barclays' significant policies and critical accounting estimates that relate to the financial statements and notes as a whole. 
If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a particular note, the accounting policy and/or critical accounting estimate is 
contained with the relevant note.

1 Significant accounting policies

1. Reporting entity
These financial statements are prepared for Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries (the Barclays PLC Group or the Group) under Section 399  
of the Companies Act 2006. The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards, wholesale banking, 
investment banking, wealth management and investment management services. In addition, individual financial statements have been presented 
for the holding company.

2. Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of the Group, and the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations (IFRICs) issued by the Interpretations Committee, as published by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They are also in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European 
Union. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below, and 
in the relevant notes to the financial statements. These policies have been consistently applied. 

3. Basis of preparation
The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair 
valuation of investment property, and particular financial instruments, to the extent required or permitted under IFRS as set out in the relevant 
accounting policies. They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling (£m), the functional currency of Barclays PLC.

4. Accounting policies
Barclays prepares financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The Group's significant accounting policies relating to specific financial statement 
items, together with a description of the accounting estimates and judgements that were critical to preparing them, are set out under the relevant 
notes. Accounting policies that affect the financial statements as a whole are set out below.

(i) Consolidation
Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over 
which Barclays PLC has control. The Group has control over another entity when the Group has all of the following:

1) power over the relevant activities of the investee, for example through voting or other rights; 

2) exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and 

3) the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 

The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances. The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee  
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the 
purposes of the consolidation. 

Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control has already been obtained and 
they do not result in loss of control.

As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where the Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption 
under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 with regard to preparing and filing of individual partnership financial 
statements.

Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 36, and a complete list of all subsidiaries is presented in Note 46.

(ii) Foreign currency translation
The Group applies IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. Transactions and balances in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency balances are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rates. 
Exchange gains and losses on such balances are taken to the income statement.

The Group's foreign operations (including subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches) based mainly outside the UK may have different 
functional currencies. The functional currency of an operation is the currency of the main economy to which it is exposed.

Prior to consolidation (or equity accounting) the assets and liabilities of non-Sterling operations are translated at the closing rate and items of 
income, expense and other comprehensive income are translated into Sterling at the rate on the date of the transactions. Exchange differences 
arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in currency translation reserves within equity. These are transferred to the income 
statement when the Group loses control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation or on partial disposal of the operation.

(iii) Financial assets and liabilities
The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to the recognition, classification and measurement, and 
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, the impairment of financial assets, and hedge accounting.

Notes to the financial statements 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 285

1 Significant accounting policies continued

Recognition
The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities when it becomes a party to the terms of the contract, which is the trade date or the 
settlement date. 

Classification and measurement
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and may be held at fair value or amortised cost depending on the Group's 
intention toward the assets and the nature of the assets and liabilities, mainly determined by their contractual terms.

The accounting policy for each type of financial asset or liability is included within the relevant note for the item. The Group's policies for 
determining the fair values of the assets and liabilities are set out in Note 18.

Derecognition
The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, from its balance sheet where the contractual rights to cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or have been transferred, usually by sale, and with them either substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset or 
significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset.

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an existing financial 
liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms – generally a difference of 10% in the present value of the cash 
flows or a substantive qualitative amendment – is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a 
new financial liability.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Transactions in which the Group transfers assets and liabilities, portions of them, or financial risks associated with them can be complex and  
it may not be obvious whether substantially all of the risks and rewards have been transferred. It is often necessary to perform a quantitative 
analysis. Such an analysis compares the Group's exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the transfer with its retained exposure  
after the transfer.

A cash flow analysis of this nature may require judgement. In particular, it is necessary to estimate the asset's expected future cash flows as well 
as potential variability around this expectation. The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the nature of the asset, with 
market and market-implied data used to the greatest extent possible. The potential variability around this expectation is typically determined by 
stressing underlying parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios. Probabilities are then assigned to each scenario. 
Stressed parameters may include default rates, loss severity, or prepayment rates.

(iv) Issued debt and equity instruments
The Group applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, to determine whether funding is either a financial liability (debt) or equity.

Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities if the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present 
obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset, or a variable number of equity shares, to the holder of the instrument. If this is not the 
case, the instrument is generally an equity instrument and the proceeds included in equity, net of transaction costs. Dividends and other returns 
to equity holders are recognised when paid or declared by the members at the AGM and treated as a deduction from equity.

Where issued financial instruments contain both liability and equity components, these are accounted for separately. The fair value of the debt is 
estimated first and the balance of the proceeds is included within equity.

New and amended standards and interpretations 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. There were no new or amended standards or 
interpretations that resulted in a change in accounting policy. 

Future accounting developments
There have been, and are expected to be, a number of significant changes to the Group's financial reporting after 2016 as a result of amended or 
new accounting standards that have been or will be issued by the IASB. The most significant of these are as follows:

IFRS 9 – Financial instruments
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is effective for periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018 and was endorsed by the EU in November 2016. IFRS 9, in particular the impairment requirements, will lead to significant 
changes in the accounting for financial instruments. Barclays does not expect to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9 on 1 January 
2018 but will provide detailed transitional disclosures in accordance with the amended requirements of IFRS 7.

Impairment
IFRS 9 introduces a revised impairment model which will require entities to recognise expected credit losses based on unbiased forward-looking 
information. This replaces the existing IAS 39 incurred loss model which only recognises impairment if there is objective evidence that a loss is 
already incurred and would measure the loss at the most probable outcome. The IFRS 9 impairment model will be applicable to all financial assets 
at amortised cost, lease receivables, debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts. This contrasts to the IAS 39 impairment model which is not applicable to loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts (these were covered by IAS 37). In addition, IAS 39 requires the impairment of available for sale debt to be based on the fair value loss 
rather than estimated future cashflows as for amortised cost assets. Intercompany exposures, including loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts, are also in scope in the stand-alone reporting entity accounts. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
286 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2016

1 Significant accounting policies continued

The measurement of expected loss will involve increased complexity and judgement including estimation of probabilities of defaults, loss given 
default, a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives, estimation of exposures at default and assessing increases 
in credit risk. 

It is expected to have a material financial impact and impairment charges will tend to be more volatile. Impairment will also be recognised earlier 
and the amounts will be higher. Unsecured products with longer expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, are expected to be most impacted. 
It will not be practical to disclose reliable financial impact estimates until the implementation programme and validation and testing is further 
advanced, which will be no later than the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017.

Based on the current requirements of CRD IV, the expected increase in the accounting impairment provision would reduce CET1 capital but the 
impact would be partially mitigated by the ‘excess of expected losses over impairment' included in the CET1 calculation as discussed on page 203. 
However, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) is currently considering amending the capital rules as a result of IFRS 9 and is 
considering transitional rules which may mitigate or spread capital impacts from 1 January 2018 as well as permanent changes to the capital 
requirements. In addition, as part of its review of the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) the European Commission has proposed that the 
capital impact of IFRS 9 is phased-in over a five-year period. IFRS 9 is considered in the Group capital planning. 

Key concepts and management judgements
The impairment requirements are complex and require management judgements, estimates and assumptions. Key concepts and management 
judgements will continue to be refined during the 2017 parallel run and as any further authoritative guidance is issued, and include:

■■ Determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition
IFRS 9 requires the recognition of 12 month expected credit losses (the expected credit losses from default events that are expected within 12 
months of reporting date) if credit risk has not significantly increased since initial recognition (stage 1), and lifetime expected credit losses for 
financial instruments for which the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition or which are credit impaired. Barclays expects to 
estimate when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred based on quantitative and qualitative assessments. Quantitative assessments will 
be based on changes in and/or absolute thresholds for weighted average cumulative lifetime probabilities of default, determined for each 
portfolio. Qualitative drivers of a significant increase in credit risk are expected to include exposures determined to be higher risk (by credit risk) 
and subject to closer credit risk monitoring. Exposures which are more than 30 days past due will be used as a backstop rather than a primary 
driver. Exposures will move back to stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk and when any cure criteria 
used for credit risk management are met. This is subject to a minimum of 12 months' full performance including timely receipt of all payments 
over that period, for exposures that have been restructured or granted forbearance or concessions. Barclays does not expect to rely primarily on 
the low credit risk exemption which would assume facilities of investment grade are not significantly deteriorated. Determining the probability of 
default at initial recognition is expected to require management estimates, in particular for exposures issued before the effective date of IFRS 9. 
For certain revolving facilities such as credit cards and overdrafts, this is expected to be when the facility was first entered into which could have 
been significantly in the past. Exposures modified due to financial difficulty do not generally result in a substantial modification or derecognition 
and therefore the probability of default at initial recognition is not reset for these exposures. 

■■ Forward-looking information
Credit losses are the expected cash shortfalls from what is contractually due over the expected life of the financial instrument, discounted at the 
original effective interest rate. Expected credit losses are the unbiased probability-weighted credit losses determined by evaluating a range of 
possible outcomes and considering future economic conditions. When there is a non-linear relationship between forward-looking economic 
scenarios and their associated credit losses, a range of forward-looking economic scenarios, currently expected to be a minimum of five, will be 
considered to ensure a sufficient unbiased representative sample of the complete distribution is included in determining the expected loss.  
Stress testing methodologies will be leveraged for forecasting economic scenarios for IFRS 9 purposes.  

■■ Definition of default and credit impaired assets
The definition of default for the purpose of determining expected credit losses is expected to be aligned to the Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 
definition of default, which considers indicators that the debtor is unlikely to pay, includes exposures in forbearance and is no later than when the 
exposure is more than 90 days past due or 180 days past due in the case of UK mortgages. When exposures are identified as credit impaired or 
purchased or originated as such, IFRS 9 requires separate disclosure and interest income to be presented on a net basis rather than gross. 

Credit impairment is expected to occur when the exposure has defaulted which is also anticipated to align to when an exposure is identified as 
individually impaired under the incurred loss model of IAS 39. Write-off polices are not expected to change from IAS 39. 

■■ Expected life
Lifetime expected credit losses must be measured over the expected life. This is restricted to the maximum contractual life and takes into account 
expected prepayment, extension, call and similar options, except for certain revolver financial instruments that include both a drawn and an 
undrawn component where the entity's contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the entity's 
exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period, such as credit cards and overdrafts. The expected life for these revolver facilities is 
expected to be behavioural life. Potential future modifications of contracts are not taken into account when determining the expected life or 
exposure at default until they occur.

■■ Modelling techniques 
Expected credit losses (ECL) are calculated by multiplying three main components, being the probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD) 
and the exposure at default (EAD). The Basel ECL calculations are leveraged for IFRS 9 modelling but adjusted for key differences which include:

 – BCBS requires 12 month through the economic cycle losses whereas IFRS 9 requires 12 month or lifetime point-in-time losses based on 
conditions at the reporting date and multiple forecasts of the future economic conditions over the expected lives; and

 – IFRS 9 models do not include some of the conservative BCBS model floors and downturn assessments and require discounting to the 
reporting date at the original effective interest rate rather than using the cost of capital to the date of default.

Management adjustments will be made to modelled output to account for situations where known or expected risk factors and information have 
not been considered in the modelling process, for example forecast economic scenarios for uncertain political events. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 287

1 Significant accounting policies continued

Classification and measurement
IFRS 9 will require financial assets to be classified on the basis of two criteria:

1) The business model within which financial assets are managed, and;

2) Their contractual cash flow characteristics (whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payments of principal and interest').

Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order  
to collect contractual cash flows, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.

Financial assets will be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they are held within a business model whose objective  
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest.

Other financial assets are measured at fair value through profit and loss. There is an option to make an irrevocable election for non-traded equity 
investments to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in which case dividends are recognised in profit or loss, but gains 
or losses are not reclassified to profit or loss upon derecognition, and impairment is not recognised in the income statement.

The accounting for financial liabilities is largely unchanged, except for financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss. Gains and 
losses on such financial liabilities arising from changes in Barclays' own credit risk will be presented in other comprehensive income rather than in 
profit and loss. There is no subsequent reclassification of realised gains or losses on own credit to profit and loss statement. 

Barclays' Classification and Measurement implementation programme is in progress. An assessment of potential changes to financial assets 
based on 30 June 2016 balances is being conducted, including an assessment of business models across various portfolios, and a review of 
contractual cash flow features for material financial assets. 

There are some classification changes expected but they are not significant from a Group perspective. The notable potential exception relates  
to loans with symmetric make whole or fair value prepayment options, which are currently subject to interpretation discussions at IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and IASB as to whether their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, or 
whether they must be measured at fair value through profit or loss in their entirety. Such prepayment features are present in some fixed rate 
corporate and investment bank loans. The carrying value of such loans is expected to be significant on initial application of IFRS 9. If such loans 
are concluded to be measured at fair value through profit or loss the potential impact on opening equity and profit or loss would depend on their 
fair values compared to their carrying amounts, and the future changes in fair value. 

Business models are determined on initial application and this may differ from the model at 30 June 2016 for certain portfolios, and contractual 
cash flow characteristics assessed as at 30 June 2016 may not be representative of the population on transition. 

The focus of the project during 2017 will be on finalising processes, governance and controls in preparation for initial application in 2018. IFRS 9  
is applied retrospectively, although comparatives are not restated, with adjustments arising from classification and measurement changes 
recognised in opening equity.

Hedge accounting
IFRS 9 contains revised requirements on hedge accounting, which are more closely aligned with an entity's risk management strategies and risk 
management objectives. The new rules would replace the current quantitative effectiveness test with a simpler version, and requires that an 
economic relationship exist between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Under the new rules, voluntary hedge de-designations would 
not be allowed.

Adoption of the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements is optional, and certain aspects of IAS 39, being the portfolio fair value hedge for interest 
rate risk, would continue to be available for entities (while applying IFRS 9 to the remainder of the entity's hedge accounting relationships) until 
the IASB completes its accounting for dynamic risk management project. 

Based on analysis performed, Barclays expects to continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting, although it will implement the amended IFRS 7 
hedge accounting disclosure requirements.

Own credit
Barclays has applied the option in IFRS 9 to recognise changes in own credit in other comprehensive income from 1 January 2017. This will have no 
effect on net assets, and any changes due to own credit in prior periods have not been restated. Any realised and unrealised amounts recognised 
in other comprehensive income will not be reclassified to the income statement in future periods.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
288 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2016

1 Significant accounting policies continued

IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.  
It applies to all contracts with customers except leases, financial instruments and insurance contracts. The standard establishes a more 
systematic approach for revenue measurement and recognition by introducing a five-step model governing revenue recognition. 

The five-step model includes:

1) identifying the contract with the customer;

2) identifying each of the performance obligations included in the contract; 

3) determining the amount of consideration in the contract; 

4) allocating the consideration to each of the identified performance obligations, and; 

5) recognising revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. 

In April 2016, the IASB issued clarifying amendments to IFRS 15 which provide additional application guidance but did not change the underlying 
principles of the standard. The standard was endorsed by the EU in September 2016. Adoption of the standard on 1 January 2018 is not expected 
to have a significant impact. Current project implementation efforts are primarily focused on preparing and sourcing information necessary to 
comply with the enhanced disclosure requirements introduced by IFRS 15. 

IFRS 16 – Leases
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, which will replace IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 will apply to all leases with the exception of licenses of 
intellectual property, rights held by licensing agreement within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, service concession arrangements, leases of 
biological assets within the scope of IAS 41 Agriculture, and leases of minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources. IFRS 16 will 
not result in a significant change to lessor accounting; however for lessee accounting there will no longer be a distinction between operating and 
finance leases. Instead lessees will be required to recognise both a right of use asset and lease liability on balance sheet for all leases. As a result 
Barclays will observe an increase in both assets and liabilities for transactions currently accounted for as operating leases as at 1 January 2019  
(the effective date of IFRS 16). A scope exemption will apply to short-term and low-value leases. Current project implementation efforts are focused 
on preparing and sourcing information necessary to comply with IFRS 16 requirements. The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement 
in applying the accounting policies. The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are 
significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements are highlighted under the relevant note. Critical accounting estimates and 
judgements are disclosed in:

■■ Credit impairment charges and other provisions on page 291;
■■ Income taxes on page 294;
■■ Available for sale assets on page 303;
■■ Fair value of financial instruments on page 304;
■■ Provisions on page 328;
■■ Retirement benefit obligations on page 346; and
■■ Derecognition of financial assets on page 357.

Other disclosures
To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, and to reduce duplication, certain disclosures 
required under IFRS have been included within the Risk management section as follows:
■■ Credit risk management on pages 149 and 150 including exposures to selected countries;
■■ Market risk on pages 151;
■■ Funding risk – liquidity on pages 153 and 154; 
■■ Funding risk – capital on pages 154 and 155; and
■■ Segmental reporting on pages 244 to 257.

These are covered by the Audit opinion (included on pages 269 to 276) where referenced as audited.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 289

The notes included in this section focus on the results and performance of the Group. Information on the income generated, expenditure 
incurred, segmental performance, tax, earnings per share and dividends are included here.

Performance/return

Notes to the financial statements

2 Segmental reporting

Presentation of segmental reporting
The Group's segmental reporting is presented in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, and has been identified as the chief operating decision maker. All transactions between business 
segments are conducted on an arm's length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head Office. Segmental income and 
expense excludes BAGL as it meets the requirement of a discontinued operation. Income and expenses directly associated with each segment are 
included in determining business segment performance.

During 2016 the Group's activities have been re-segmented into Barclays UK and Barclays International in preparation for regulatory ring fencing 
requirements. In addition Barclays' interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited was re-classified as a discontinued operation and the Non-Core segment 
has been enlarged. Comparatives have been updated to reflect the re-segmentation.

An analysis of the Group's performance by business segment and income by geographic segment is included on pages 244 and 245. Further details 
on each of the segments are provided on pages 246 to 257.

3 Net interest income

Accounting for interest income and expense
The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Interest income on loans and advances at amortised cost, 
financial investments debt securities, and interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost, are calculated using the effective interest 
method which allocates interest, and direct and incremental fees and costs, over the expected lives of the assets and liabilities.

The effective interest method requires the Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customers' behaviour, 
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as the expected lives of the assets and liabilities. 

Barclays incurs certain costs to originate credit card balances with the most significant being co-brand partner fees. To the extent these costs are 
attributed to revolving customer balances they are capitalised and subsequently included within the calculation of the effective interest rate. They 
are amortised to interest income over the period of expected repayment of the originated balance. Costs attributed to transacting customer 
balances are recorded within fee and commission expense when incurred. There are no other individual estimates involved in the calculation of 
effective interest rates that are material to the results or financial position.

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Cash and balances with central banks 186 157 186
Financial investments 740 698 803
Loans and advances to banks 600 487 376
Loans and advances to customers 12,958 12,512 12,768
Other 57 99 61
Interest incomea 14,541 13,953 14,194
Deposits from banks (265) (128) (133)
Customer accounts (1,514) (1,406) (2,205)
Debt securities in issue (990) (553) (691)
Subordinated liabilities (1,104) (1,015) (1,006)
Other (131) (243) (73)
Interest expensea (4,004) (3,345) (4,108)
Net interest income 10,537 10,608 10,086

Costs to originate credit card balances of £480m (2015: £368m) have been amortised to interest income during the period.

Interest income includes £75m (2015: £91m; 2014: £117m) accrued on impaired loans.

Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements. Similarly, other interest expense principally 
includes interest expense relating to repurchase agreements.

Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 15.

2016
Net interest income remained stable at £10,537m (2015: £10,608m), driven by increased expenses from debt securities in issue partially offset by 
volume growth and margin improvement within Barclays International cards portfolio. 

2015
Net interest income increased by £522m (5%) to £10,608m, primarily driven by lower interest expense from customer accounts.

 Note
a Both interest income and interest expense for 2015 and 2014 have been adjusted by £442m and £605m respectively in order to better align the effect of hedge accounting 

relationships with the related hedged items. The following categories were restated: financial investments by £(545)m (2014: £(637)m), loans and advances to customers by £987m 
(2014: £1,242m). Customer accounts by £(1,783)m (2014: £(2,016)m), debt securities in issue by £784m (2014: £859m) and subordinated liabilities by £557m (2014: £552m).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
290 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return

4 Net fee and commission income 

Accounting for net fee and commission income 
The Group applies IAS 18 Revenue. Fees and commissions charged for services provided or received by the Group are recognised as the services 
are provided, for example on completion of the underlying transaction. 

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Fee and commission income
Banking, investment management and credit related fees and commissions 8,452 8,340 8,483
Foreign exchange commission 118 130 139
Fee and commission income 8,570 8,470 8,622
Fee and commission expense (1,802) (1,611) (1,500)
Net fee and commission income 6,768 6,859 7,122

2016
Net fee and commission income decreased £91m to £6,768m. This was primarily driven by an increase in expenses in Barclays International due  
to higher customer reward costs and lower fees income in Non-Core due to the sale of the US and Asia wealth businesses and the closure of the 
equities traded securities business as well as a decrease within Barclays UK due to lower interchange fees on account of EU Interchange regulation. 
These movements were partially offset by an increase in income in Barclays International driven by growth in the cards portfolio and an increase in 
investment banking business due to higher fees income from the US loans/bonds and investment grade products coupled with higher financial 
advisory fees.

2015
Net fee and commission income decreased £263m to £6,859m. This was primarily driven by lower income in Non-Core due to the sale of the US 
Wealth and Spanish retail business and the Barclays UK business due to the launch of the revised overdraft proposition in mid 2014, which recognises 
the majority of the overdraft income as net interest income as opposed to fee income. The decrease in Barclays International is driven by lower equity 
underwriting fees partially offset by higher financial advisory and debt underwriting fees and increase in Barclaycard International, driven by growth 
in payment volumes.

5 Net trading income

Accounting for net trading income
In accordance with IAS 39, trading positions are held at fair value, and the resulting gains and losses are included in the income statement, 
together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.

Income arises from both the sale and purchase of trading positions, margins which are achieved through market-making and customer business 
and from changes in fair value caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.

Own credit gains/losses arise from the fair valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. See Note 17 Financial 
liabilities designated at fair value.

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Trading income 2,803 2,996 3,052
Own credit (losses)/gains (35) 430 34
Net trading income 2,768 3,426 3,086

Included within net trading income were gains of £31m (2015: £992m gain; 2014: £1,051m loss) on financial assets designated at fair value and 
gains of £346m (2015: £187m loss; 2014: £65m loss) on financial liabilities designated at fair value.

2016
Net trading income decreased by 19% to £2,768m, primarily reflecting a £465m movement in own credit as the credit spreads on Barclays' issued 
debt were relatively flat as compared to prior year. Trading income decreased by £193m, mainly driven by the continued disposal and running down 
of certain businesses and fair value reduction on the ESHLA portfolio within Non-Core. This was partially offset by higher contributions from Fixed 
Income businesses that benefited from market volatility and higher client volumes during the year.

2015
Net trading income increased by 11% to £3,426m, primarily reflecting a £396m favourable variance in own credit due to widening of credit spreads 
on Barclays' issued debt. Trading income decreased by £56m, mainly driven by the continued disposal and running down of certain businesses and 
fair value movements on the ESHLA portfolio within Non-Core. This was partially offset by increases in various investment banking businesses within 
Barclays International driven by higher volatility and trading activity during the year.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 291

6 Net investment income

Accounting for net investment income 
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive the dividend has been established. Other accounting policies relating to net investment 
income are set out in Note 14 Financial assets designated at fair value and Note 16 Financial Investments.

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Net gain from disposal of available for sale investments 912 385 622
Dividend income 8 8 9
Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 158 193 203
Other investment income 246 511 475
Net investment income 1,324 1,097 1,309

2016
Net investment income increased by 21% to £1,324m. This was largely driven by a gain of £615m on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe 
Limited and gains on buy-back of senior and subordinated debt issuances. These increases were partially offset by non-repeat of gains of £496m 
recognised in 2015 in other investment income due to the final and full legal settlement in respect of US Lehman acquisition assets.

2015
Net investment income decreased by 16% to £1,097m. This was largely driven by lower gains and fewer disposals of available for sale investments 
due to unfavourable market conditions. During the year a gain of £496m (2014: £461m) was recognised in other investment income due to the final 
and full legal settlement in respect of US Lehman acquisition assets.

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions

Accounting for the impairment of financial assets
Loans and other assets held at amortised cost
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that loan assets or available for sale 
financial investments (debt or equity) will not be recovered in full and, wherever necessary, recognises an impairment loss in the income 
statement.

An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of events that have occurred and these have adversely 
impacted the estimated future cash flows from the assets. These events include:
■■ becoming aware of significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor
■■ a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments
■■ the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower's financial difficulty, grants a concession that it would not otherwise consider
■■ It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
■■ the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties and
■■ observable data at a portfolio level indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, although the decrease 

cannot yet be ascribed to individual financial assets in the portfolio – such as adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the 
portfolio or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.

Impairment assessments are conducted individually for significant assets, which comprise all wholesale customer loans and larger retail business 
loans and collectively for smaller loans and for portfolio level risks, such as country or sectoral risks. For the purposes of the assessment, loans 
with similar credit risk characteristics are grouped together – generally on the basis of their product type, industry, geographical location, collateral 
type, past due status and other factors relevant to the evaluation of expected future cash flows.

The impairment assessment includes estimating the expected future cash flows from the asset or the group of assets, which are then discounted 
using the original effective interest rate calculated for the asset. If this is lower than the carrying value of the asset or the portfolio, an impairment 
allowance is raised.

If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of the 
reversal is recognised in the income statement.

Following impairment, interest income continues to be recognised at the original effective interest rate on the restated carrying amount, 
representing the unwind of the discount of the expected cash flows, including the principal due on non-accrual loans.

Uncollectable loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Group's internal processes when all 
reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the 
income statement.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
292 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued

Available for sale financial assets
Impairment of available for sale debt instruments
Debt instruments are assessed for impairment in the same way as loans. If impairment is deemed to have occurred, the cumulative decline  
in the fair value of the instrument that has previously been recognised in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and recognised  
in the income statement. This may be reversed if there is evidence that the circumstances of the issuer have improved.

Impairment of available for sale equity instruments
Where there has been a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of an equity instrument below its acquisition cost, it is deemed to be 
impaired. The cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and 
recognised in the income statement.

Increases in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Further declines in the  
fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised in the income statement.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The calculation of impairment involves the use of judgement, based on the Group's experience of managing credit risk.

Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics 
where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, based 
on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods. These statistical analyses use as primary inputs the extent to which accounts in the 
portfolio are in arrears and historical information on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios. There are many such models 
in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or customer category. Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to 
use when the models are developed or revised. The impairment allowance reflected in the financial statements for these portfolios is therefore 
considered to be reasonable and supportable. The impairment charge reflected in the income statement for retail portfolios is £2,053m  
(2015: £1,535m; 2014: £1,549m) and amounts to 87% (2015: 88%; 2014: 83%) of the total impairment charge on loans and advances.

For individually significant assets, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing  
on the expected future cash flows are taken into account (for example, the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, 
the Group's position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out process).  
The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows (discounted at the loan's 
original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Subjective judgements are made in the calculation of future cash flows. Furthermore, 
judgements change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the 
impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct 
impact on the impairment charge. The impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in relation to wholesale portfolios is £299m  
(2015: £209m; 2014: £308m) and amounts to 13% (2015: 12%; 2014: 17%) of the total impairment charge on loans and advances. 
Further information on impairment allowances and related credit information is set out within the Risk review.

 
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

New and increased impairment allowances 3,259 2,641 2,809
Releases (551) (535) (791)
Recoveries (365) (350) (166)
Impairment charges on loans and advances 2,343 1,756 1,852
Provision charges/(releases) for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 9 (12) 5
Loan impairment 2,352 1,744 1,857
Available for sale investment 21 18 (31)
Reverse repurchase agreements  –  – (5)
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 2,373 1,762 1,821

2016
Loan impairment increased by 35% to £2,352m, primarily due to increased charges following the management review of impairment modelling  
for UK and US cards portfolios and the impairment of a number of single name exposures.

2015
Loan impairment decreased by 6% to £1,744m, reflecting lower impairment in Barclays UK and Non-Core, partially offset by increased charges  
in Barclays International.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 293

8 Operating expenses

Accounting for staff costs
The Group applies IAS 19 Employee benefits in its accounting for most of the components of staff costs.

Short-term employee benefits – salaries, accrued performance costs and social security are recognised over the period in which the employees 
provide the services to which the payments relate.

Performance costs – recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably and are 
recognised over the period of service that employees are required to work to qualify for the services.

Deferred cash and share awards are made to employees to incentivise performance over the period employees provide services. To receive 
payment under an award, employees must provide service over the vesting period. The period over which the expense for deferred cash and share 
awards is recognised is based upon the period employees consider their services contribute to the awards. For past awards, the Group considers 
that it is appropriate to recognise the awards over the period from the date of grant to the date that the awards vest. In relation to awards granted 
in 2017, the Group, taking into account the changing employee understanding surrounding those awards, considered it appropriate for expense  
to be recognised over four years including the financial year prior to the grant date. The impact in 2016 of the 2017 grant is an expense of £150m 
including social security costs.

The accounting policies for share-based payments, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in Note 34 and Note 35 
respectively.

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Infrastructure costs
Property and equipment 1,180 1,082 1,281
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 492 475 495
Operating lease rentals 561 411 512
Amortisation of intangible assets 670 570 454
Impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 95 150 153
Gain on property disposals  – 3  – 
Total infrastructure costs 2,998 2,691 2,895
Administration and general costs
Consultancy, legal and professional fees 1,105 1,078 997
Subscriptions, publications, stationery and communications 644 678 756
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship 435 451 470
Travel and accommodation 136 188 185
UK bank levy 410 425 418
Goodwill impairment  – 102  – 
Other administration and general expenses 187 61 243
Total administration and general costs 2,917 2,983 3,069
Staff costs 9,423 8,853 9,860
Provision for UK customer redress 1,000 2,772 1,110
Provision for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange  – 1,237 1,250
Operating expenses 16,338 18,536 18,184

2016
Operating expenses decreased by 12% to £16,338m (2015: £18,536m) primarily due to lower PPI provisions and lower litigation provisions in 2016. 
This is partially offset by an increase in staff costs primarily due to £395m of additional charges relating to 2016 compensation costs.

2015
Operating expenses increased by 2% to £18,536m attributable to an increase in provisions for UK customer redress including PPI and an increase  
in impairment of goodwill partially offset by a decrease in staff costs (includes a gain on retirement benefits, refer to Note 35, of £429m) and 
infrastructure costs reflecting savings from strategic cost programmes.

9 Profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
During the year, the gain on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was £420m (2015: loss of £637m; 2014: loss of £473m), principally 
relating to the sale of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index Solutions, the disposal of the Southern European card business and the sale of the  private 
banking and wealth management services conducted through the Hong Kong and Singapore branches. These gains were partially offset with the 
IFRS 5 charge on an impending disposal of the French business. Please refer to Note 44 Non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities for 
further detail.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
294 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return

10 Tax

Accounting for income taxes
Barclays applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. Income tax payable on taxable profits (Current tax) is recognised as  
an expense in the period in which the profits arise. Withholding taxes are also treated as income taxes. Income tax recoverable on tax allowable 
losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against taxable profits arising in the 
current or prior period. Current tax is measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance  
sheet date. 

Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and legislation 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred 
tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on  
a net basis. 

The Group considers an uncertain tax position to exist when it considers that ultimately, in the future, the amount of profit subject to tax may be 
greater than the amount initially reflected in the Group's tax returns. The Group accounts for provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions in 
two different ways.

A current tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position 
will alter the amount of cash tax due to, or from, a tax authority in the future. From recognition, the current tax provision is then measured at the 
amount the Group ultimately expects to pay the tax authority to resolve the position. 

Deferred tax provisions are adjustments made to the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of uncertain tax positions. A deferred tax 
provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position will result in  
a reduction in the carrying value of the deferred tax asset. From recognition of a provision, measurement of the underlying deferred tax asset is 
adjusted to take into account the expected impact of resolving the uncertain tax position on the loss or temporary difference giving rise to the 
deferred tax asset. 

The approach taken to measurement takes account of whether the uncertain tax position is a discrete position that will be reviewed by the tax 
authority in isolation from any other position, or one of a number of issues which are expected to be reviewed together concurrently and resolved 
simultaneously with a tax authority. Barclays' measurement of provisions is based upon its best estimate of the additional profit that will become 
subject to tax. For a discrete position, consideration is given only to the merits of that position. Where a number of issues are expected to be 
reviewed and resolved together, Barclays will take into account not only the merits of its position in respect of each particular issue but also the 
overall level of provision relative to the aggregate of the uncertain tax positions across all the issues that are expected to be resolved at the same 
time. In addition, in assessing provision levels, it is assumed that tax authorities will review uncertain tax positions and that all facts will be fully 
and transparently disclosed. 

2016
£m

2015
£m

2014
£m

Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 896 1,605 1,131 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (361) (188) (19)

535 1,417 1,112 
Deferred tax charge/(credit)
Current year 393 (346) 75 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 65 78 (66)

458 (268) 9 
Tax charge 993 1,149 1,121 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 295

10 Tax continued
The table below shows the reconciliation between the actual tax charge and the tax charge that would result from applying the standard UK 
corporation tax rate to the Group's profit before tax.

 
2016

£m
2016

%
2015

£m
2015

%
2014

£m
2014

%

Profit before tax from continuing operations 3,230 1,146 1,313
Tax charge based on the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% 
(2015: 20.25%; 2014: 21.50%) 646 20.0% 232 20.25% 282 21.5% 
Impact of profits/losses earned in territories with different 
statutory rates to the UK (weighted average tax rate is 32.8% 
(2015: 33.4%; 2014: 29.3%)) 415 12.8% 151 13.2% 103 7.8% 

Recurring items: 
Non-creditable taxes including withholding taxes 277 8.6% 309 27.0% 329 25.1% 
Non-deductible expenses 114 3.5% 67 5.8% 146 11.1% 
Impact of UK bank levy being non-deductible 82 2.5% 96 8.4% 99 7.5% 
Other items 58 1.9% (14) (1.1%) 42 3.3% 
Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 34 1.1% 30 2.6% 21 1.6% 
Impact of change in tax rates 30 0.9% 158 13.8% 9 0.7% 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (296) (9.2%) (110) (9.6%) (85) (6.5%)
Non-taxable gains and income (199) (6.2%) (197) (17.2%) (212) (16.1%)
Changes in recognition of deferred tax and effect of unrecognised 
tax losses (178) (5.5%) (71) (6.2%) (115) (8.8%)
Impact of Barclays Bank PLC's overseas branches being taxed both 
locally and in the UK (128) (4.0%) (35) (3.1%) (68) (5.2%)

Non-recurring items:
Non-deductible provisions for UK customer redress 203 6.3% 283 24.7%  –  –  
Non-deductible impairments and losses on divestments 67 2.1% 39 3.4% 234 17.8% 
Non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation 48 1.5% 261 22.8% 387 29.5% 
Non-taxable gains and income on divestments (180) (5.6%) (50) (4.4%) (51) (3.9%)

Total tax charge 993 30.7% 1,149 100.3% 1,121 85.4%

Factors driving the effective tax rate
The effective tax rate of 30.7% is higher than the UK corporation tax rate of 20% primarily due to profits earned outside the UK being taxed at higher 
local statutory tax rates. In addition the effective tax rate is affected by provisions for UK customer redress being non-deductible for tax purposes, 
non-creditable taxes and non-deductible expenses including UK bank levy. These factors, which have each increased the effective tax rate, are 
partially offset by the impact of non-taxable gains and income, including those arising from divestments, and reductions in expected liabilities in 
respect of a range of issues related to a number of prior years. 

Relative to the prior year, the effective tax rate on profit before tax decreased to 30.7% (2015: 100.3%). This was principally a result of a lower level of 
non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation in 2016, as well as gains arising in 2016 on the divestment of businesses and assets, as the 
Group has pursued its strategy to run-down Non-Core, that were taxed at low rates. 

The Group's future tax charge will be sensitive to the geographic mix of profits earned and the tax rates in force in the jurisdictions in which we 
operate. In the UK, legislation to reduce the corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020 has been enacted. In the US, 
proposed tax reform measures include a reduction in the US corporate income tax rate to as low as 15%. The US rate change is a proposal only at 
this stage and developments are being closely monitored. In the long term, a reduction in the tax rate would enhance the returns generated by the 
Group's US business. However, if enacted, such a change would have a substantial up-front negative impact on the measurement of the Group's US 
deferred tax assets, although this would reverse over time and result in a lower effective tax rate as these assets are utilised. 

Tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
The most significant tax charge in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income relates to cash flow hedging reserve. The majority of this 
tax charge is on income brought into charge in the UK in 2016 and this reflects the new surcharge of 8%, that applies to banks' UK profits, as well as 
the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20%. Additionally included within the ‘Other' line is a tax credit of £21m (2015: £21m credit) relating to 
share-based payments.

Tax in respect of discontinued operation
Tax relating to the discontinued operation can be found in the BAGL disposal group income statement (see Note 44). The tax charge of £306m 
(2015: £301m) relates entirely to the profit from the ordinary activities of the discontinued operation. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
296 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return

10 Tax continued
Current tax assets and liabilities
Movements on current tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Assets 415 334 
Liabilities (903) (1,021)
As at 1 January (488) (687)
Income statement from continuing operations (535) (1,417)
Income statement in relation to BAGL disposal group               – (301)
Other comprehensive income 23 6 
Corporate income tax paid 780 1,670 
Other movements 44 241 

(176) (488)
Assets 561 415 
Liabilities (737) (903)
As at 31 December (176) (488)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The deferred tax amounts on the balance sheet were as follows:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) – US tax group 2,207 2,049 
Barclays Bank PLC (US Branch) – US tax group 1,766 1,569 
Barclays PLC – UK tax group 575 411 
Other 321 466 
Deferred tax asset 4,869 4,495 
Deferred tax liability (29) (122)
Net deferred tax 4,840 4,373 

US deferred tax assets in the IHC and the US Branch
The deferred tax asset in the IHC of £2,207m (2015: £2,049m) includes £321m (2015: £503m) relating to tax losses and the deferred tax asset in 
the US Branch of £1,766m (2015: £1,569m) includes £142m (2015: £244m) relating to tax losses. Under US tax rules, losses can be carried forward 
and offset against profits for a period of 20 years. The losses first arose in 2011 in the IHC and 2008 in the US Branch and therefore any unused 
amounts may begin to expire in 2031 and 2028 respectively. The remaining US deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences for which there is 
no time limit on recovery. The deferred tax assets for the IHC tax losses and the US Branch losses are projected to be fully utilised by 2018.

The measurement of the US branch deferred tax assets takes into account both US and UK tax. This is because Barclays Bank PLC is subject to UK 
tax on its worldwide profits, including the profits of its overseas branches. The US branch deferred tax assets are valued at the difference between 
the US and UK tax rates. 

UK tax group deferred tax asset
The deferred tax asset in the UK tax group of £575m (2015: £411m) relates entirely to temporary differences. 

Other deferred tax assets
The deferred tax asset of £321m (2015: £466m) in other entities within the Group includes £40m (2015: £155m) relating to tax losses carried 
forward. These deferred tax assets relate to a number of different territories and their recognition is based on profit forecasts or local country law 
which indicate that it is probable that the losses and temporary differences will be utilised.

Of the deferred tax asset of £321m (2015: £466m), an amount of £267m (2015: £106m) relates to entities which have suffered a loss in either  
the current or prior year. This has been taken into account in reaching the above conclusion that these deferred tax assets will be fully recovered  
in the future. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 297

10 Tax continued
The table below shows movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. The amounts are different from those disclosed on the 
balance sheet and in the preceding table as they are presented before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and 
an intention to settle on a net basis.



Fixed asset
timing

differences
£m

Available
for sale

investments
£m

Cash flow
hedges

£m

Retirement
benefit

obligations
£m

Loan
impairment

allowance
£m

Other
provisions

£m

Tax losses
carried

forward
£m

Share-based
payments 

and 
deferred 

com-
pensation

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m

Assets 2,008 28 5 95 157 261 902 623 1,511 5,590
Liabilities (194) (70) (239) (144)  –  –  –  – (570) (1,217)
At 1 January 2016 1,814 (42) (234) (49) 157 261 902 623 941 4,373
Income statement (358) 9 (7) (8) 52 17 (522) 15 344 (458)
Other comprehensive income  – 49 (61) 132  –  –  – 20 (6) 134
Other movements 253 26 (31) 16 (58) (27) 123 74 415 791

1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840
Assets 1,801 183  – 91 151 251 503 732 2,013 5,725
Liabilities (92) (141) (333)  –  –  –  –  – (319) (885)
At 31 December 2016 1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840

Assets 1,542 18 5 321 176 233 1,315 729 951 5,290
Liabilities (555) (35) (464)  –    –    –    –    –   (368) (1,422)
At 1 January 2015 987 (17) (459) 321 176 233 1,315 729 583 3,868
Income statement 779 (13) 1 (119) (14) 21 (540) (126) 279 268
Other comprehensive income  –   (14) 221 (261)  –    –   122 (10) (21) 37
Other movements 48 2 3 10 (5) 7 5 30 100 200

1,814 (42) (234) (49) 157 261 902 623 941 4,373
Assets 2,008 28 5 95 157 261 902 623 1,511 5,590
Liabilities (194) (70) (239) (144)  –    –    –    –   (570) (1,217)
At 31 December 2015 1,814 (42) (234) (49) 157 261 902 623 941 4,373

Other movements include the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates as well as deferred tax amounts relating to acquisitions, disposals and 
transfers to held for sale. 

The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £273m (2015: £675m). The amount of deferred tax assets 
expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £5,066m (2015: £4,838m). These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances 
where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis.

Unrecognised deferred tax
Tax losses and temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of gross deductible temporary differences of £64m (2015: £51m) and gross tax losses of 
£16,820m (2015: £13,456m). The increase in these losses in 2016 is largely a result of the weakening of Sterling against the overseas currencies 
these losses are denominated in. The tax losses include capital losses of £3,138m (2015: £3,838m) and unused tax credits of £514m (2015: £452m). 
Of these tax losses, £394m (2015: £389m) expire within five years, £57m (2015: £13m) expire within six to ten years, £358m (2015: £124m) expire 
within 11 to 20 years and £16,011m (2015: £12,930m) can be carried forward indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of 
these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits and gains will be available against which they can be utilised. 

Group investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the value of Group's investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates where the Group is able to 
control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
The aggregate amount of these temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £2bn (2015: £2bn). 

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of current and deferred tax balances, 
including provisions for uncertain tax positions, in the next financial year. The provisions for uncertain tax positions cover a diverse range of issues 
and reflect legal advice from external counsel where relevant. It should be noted that only a proportion of the total uncertain tax positions will be 
under audit at any point in time, and could therefore be subject to challenge by a tax authority over the next year. 

Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on business profit forecasts. Further detail on the recognition of deferred tax assets is provided in 
the deferred tax assets and liabilities section of this tax note. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
298 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Performance/return

11 Earnings per share
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations 1,623 (394) (174)
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity holders 128 70 54
Total Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued 
operations 1,751 (324) (120)

Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,434 (696) (508)
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity holders 128 70 54
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,562 (626) (454)

Discontinued operations
Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 189 302 334
Dilutive impact of convertible options from discontinued operations (1)  –  – 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations including dilutive impact on 
convertible options 188 302 334

Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations 
including dilutive impact on convertible options 1,750 (324) (120)

2016
million

2015
million

2014
million

Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 16,860 16,687 16,329
Number of potential ordinary shares 184 367 296
Diluted weighted average number of shares 17,044 17,054 16,625

Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per sharea

2016
p

2015
p

2014
p

2016
p

2015
p

2014
p

Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 10.4 (1.9) (0.7) 10.3 (1.9) (0.7)
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share from continuing operations 9.3 (3.7) (2.7) 9.2 (3.7) (2.7)
Basic earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations 1.1 1.8 2.0 1.1 1.8 2.0

The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the basic weighted average number 
of shares excluding treasury shares held in employee benefit trusts or held for trading. When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the weighted 
average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, totalling 184m 
(2015: 367m) shares. In addition, the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is adjusted for the dilutive impact of the potential conversion 
of outstanding options held in respect of BAGL. The decrease in the number of potential ordinary shares is due to the average share price of £1.74 
(2015: £2.52) being lower than the average strike price of £1.88 (2015: £2.11). During the year the total number of share options granted under 
employee share schemes was 584m (2015: 533m). The schemes have strike prices ranging from £1.20 to £2.49.

Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2016, 93m (2015: 23m) were anti-dilutive. 

The 173m increase in the basic weighted average number of shares since 31 December 2015 to 16,860m is primarily due to shares issued under 
employee share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Programme. 

12 Dividends on ordinary shares
The Directors have approved a final dividend in respect of 2016 of 2.0p per ordinary share of 25p each which will be paid on 5 April 2017 to 
shareholders on the Share Register on 3 March 2017. On 31 December 2016, there were 16,963m ordinary shares in issue. The financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 do not reflect this dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained 
profits in the year ending 31 December 2017. The 2016 financial statements include the 2016 interim dividends of £169m (2015: £503m) and final 
dividend declared in relation to 2015 of £588m (2015: £578m).

Note
a Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would increase loss per share. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 299

The notes included in this section focus on assets and liabilities the Group holds and recognises at fair value. Fair value refers to the price that 
would be received to sell an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an arms-length transaction with a willing counterparty, 
which may be an observable market price or, where there is no quoted price for the instrument, may be an estimate based on available market 
data. Detail regarding the Group's approach to managing market risk can be found on page 151.

Assets and liabilities held at fair value 

Notes to the financial statements

13 Trading portfolio

Accounting for trading portfolio assets and liabilities
In accordance with IAS 39, all assets and liabilities held for trading purposes are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes in fair value 
taken to the income statement in net trading income (Note 5).

Trading portfolio assets Trading portfolio liabilities
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Debt securities and other eligible bills 38,789 45,576 (26,842) (24,985)
Equity securities 38,329 29,055 (7,831) (8,982)
Traded loans 2,975 2,474  –  – 
Commodities 147 243 (14)  – 
Trading portfolio assets/(liabilities) 80,240 77,348 (34,687) (33,967)

14 Financial assets designated at fair value

Accounting for financial assets designated at fair value
In accordance with IAS 39, financial assets may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net 
trading income (Note 5) and net investment income (Note 6). The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the 
instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed  
by the Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics described in Note 15 Derivative 
financial instruments.

The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial assets designated at fair value are described in Note 18 Fair value of assets  
and liabilities.

2016
£m

2015
£m

Loans and advances 10,519 17,913
Debt securities 70 1,383
Equity securities 4,558 6,197
Reverse repurchase agreements 63,162 49,513
Customers' assets held under investment contracts 37 1,449
Other financial assets 262 375
Financial assets designated at fair value 78,608 76,830

Credit risk of loans and advances designated at fair value and related credit derivatives
The following table shows the maximum exposure to credit risk, the changes in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, and the cumulative 
changes in fair value since initial recognition together with the amount by which related credit derivatives mitigate this risk:

Maximum exposure as at 
31 December

Changes in fair value during 
the year ended

Cumulative changes in fair 
value from inception

2016
£m

2015
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

2016
£m

2015
£m

Loans and advances designated at fair value, attributable to credit risk 10,519 17,913 (42) 69 (42) (629)
Value mitigated by related credit derivatives 339 417 (2) 26 (13) 42

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
300 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

15 Derivative financial instruments 

Accounting for derivatives
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract. 
They include swaps, forward-rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Group's net 
interest income, net trading income and derivative assets and liabilities. Notional amounts of the contracts are not recorded on the balance sheet.  

The Group applies IAS 39. All derivative instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss. Derivatives are classified as assets when their  
fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. This includes terms included in a contract or other financial asset or liability 
(the host), which, had it been a stand-alone contract, would have met the definition of a derivative. If these are separated from the host  
i.e. when the economic characteristics of the embedded derivative are not closely related with those of the host contract and the combined 
instrument is not measured at fair value through profit or loss then they are accounted for in the same way as derivatives.

Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting to represent, to the maximum possible extent permitted under accounting standards, the economic effects 
of its interest and currency risk management strategies. Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and equity 
exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions. Where derivatives 
are held for risk management purposes, and when transactions meet the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness, the Group 
applies fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation, as appropriate to the risks 
being hedged. 

Fair value hedge accounting 
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with 
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The fair value changes adjust the carrying value  
of the hedged asset or liability held at amortised cost.

If hedge relationships no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate 
risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated 
hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.

Cash flow hedge accounting
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially in 
other comprehensive income, and then recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. Any 
ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.

When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When 
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the 
income statement.

Hedges of net investments 
The Group's net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items accounted for as part of the net investment, are hedged for foreign 
currency risks using both derivatives and foreign currency borrowings. Hedges of net investments are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges; 
the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is being recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective 
portion being recognised immediately in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is 
recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation, or other reductions in the Group's investment  
in the operation. 

Total derivatives 2016 2015
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646) 29,437,102 326,772 (323,788)
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 336,524 1,002 (841) 316,605 937 (464)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 36,522,344 346,626 (340,487) 29,753,707 327,709 (324,252)

The fair value of derivative assets increased by 6% to £347bn. This was mainly in foreign exchange derivatives largely due to increase in trade 
volumes and appreciation of all major currencies against GBP. Information on further netting of derivative financial instruments is included within 
Note 19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.

Trading derivatives are managed within the Group's market risk management policies, which are outlined on page 151.

The Group's exposure to credit risk arising from derivative contracts are outlined in the Credit risk section on pages 187 and 188.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 301

15 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for trading 2016 2015
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Foreign exchange derivatives
Forward foreign exchange 2,308,922 32,442 (30,907) 1,277,863 17,613 (19,433)
Currency swaps 1,086,552 40,083 (40,164) 1,006,640 30,703 (32,449)
OTC options bought and sold 772,031 6,338 (6,762) 924,832 6,436 (6,771)
OTC derivatives 4,167,505 78,863 (77,833) 3,209,335 54,752 (58,653)
Foreign exchange derivatives cleared by central counterparty 43,478 366 (388) 9,308 33 (44)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 18,813 31 (27) 6,071 13 (12)
Foreign exchange derivatives 4,229,796 79,260 (78,248) 3,224,714 54,798 (58,709)
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps 4,799,897 153,822 (143,059) 4,600,472 159,040 (148,475)
Forward-rate agreements 296,559 999 (968) 371,510 440 (390)
OTC options bought and sold 2,522,430 42,412 (43,373) 2,634,527 48,995 (49,001)
OTC derivatives 7,618,886 197,233 (187,400) 7,606,509 208,475 (197,866)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterpartya 14,439,407 30,503 (31,528) 11,407,745 21,871 (22,603)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 7,952,733 397 (370) 5,470,872 281 (263)
Interest rate derivatives 30,011,026 228,133 (219,298) 24,485,126 230,627 (220,732)
Credit derivatives
OTC swaps 615,057 11,811 (10,513) 671,389 14,087 (12,693)
Credit derivatives cleared by central counterpartya 332,743 4,462 (4,572) 277,257 4,094 (3,931)
Credit derivatives 947,800 16,273 (15,085) 948,646 18,181 (16,624)
Equity and stock index derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 102,545 6,766 (8,837) 53,645 5,507 (7,746)
Equity swaps and forwards 105,120 2,253 (4,435) 98,264 1,794 (3,855)
OTC derivatives 207,665 9,019 (13,272) 151,909 7,301 (11,601)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 585,620 8,070 (8,600) 429,592 6,498 (6,851)
Equity and stock index derivatives 793,285 17,089 (21,872) 581,501 13,799 (18,452)
Commodity derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 14,053 395 (461) 21,959 1,402 (1,408)
Commodity swaps and forwards 16,086 1,528 (1,821) 29,161 3,645 (3,397)
OTC derivatives 30,139 1,923 (2,282) 51,120 5,047 (4,805)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 173,774 2,946 (2,861) 145,995 4,320 (4,466)
Commodity derivatives 203,913 4,869 (5,143) 197,115 9,367 (9,271)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646) 29,437,102 326,772 (323,788)

Total OTC derivatives held for trading 12,639,252 298,849 (291,300) 11,690,262 289,662 (285,618)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held for 
trading 14,815,628 35,331 (36,488) 11,694,310 25,998 (26,578)
Total exchange traded derivatives held for trading 8,730,940 11,444 (11,858) 6,052,530 11,112 (11,592)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 36,185,820 345,624 (339,646) 29,437,102 326,772 (323,788)

Note
a The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) changed its rulebook with an effective date of 3 January 2017. Under the new rules, OTC positions cleared will be settled daily by cash 

payments and not collateralised by these payments (known currently as variation margin). For reporting periods following the effective date, the fair value of derivatives will reflect 
the settlement which will reduce the fair value of the recognised derivative assets and liabilities and there will be no separate cash collateral recognised for the daily ‘variation margin'.  
As at 31 December 2016, the fair value of impacted derivatives assets was £20.4bn and derivative liabilities £21.5bn.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
302 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

15 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for risk management 2016 2015
Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value Notional 
contract 
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Currency swaps 1,357 453  –   1,357 133  –   
Interest rate swaps 5,965 154 (6) 14,198 162 (115)
Forward foreign exchange  –    –    –   759 5  –   
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 181,541 62 (27) 147,072  –    –   
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 188,863 669 (33) 163,386 300 (115)
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 10,733 301 (744) 13,798 637 (264)
Forward foreign exchange  –    –    –   2,527  –   (32)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 130,842  –    –   134,939  –    –   
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 141,575 301 (744) 151,264 637 (296)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments
Forward foreign exchange 6,086 32 (64) 1,955  –   (53)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments 6,086 32 (64) 1,955  –   (53)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 336,524 1,002 (841) 316,605 937 (464)

Total OTC derivatives held for risk management 24,141 940 (814) 34,594 937 (464)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held for risk 
management 312,383 62 (27) 282,011  –    –   
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 336,524 1,002 (841) 316,605 937 (464)

The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates. These cash flows are expected to impact the 
income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied:

Total
£m

Up to 
one year

£m

One to 
two years

£m

Two to 
three years

£m

Three to 
four years

£m

Four to 
five years

£m

More than 
five years

£m

2016
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,616 455 531 511 411 327 381
Forecast payable cash flows 52 15 16 7 6 5 3

2015
Forecast receivable cash flows 4,952 555 816 875 813 633 1,260
Forecast payable cash flows 872 769 35 31 22 11 4

The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those 
forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments is 10 years (2015: 10 years).

Amounts recognised in net interest income
2016

£m
2015

£m

Gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 1,787 552
Losses on the hedging instruments (1,741) (485)
Fair value ineffectiveness 46 67
Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness 28 16
Net investment hedging ineffectiveness (3) (2)

Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement included a £17m gain (2015: £36m gain) transferred to 
interest income; a £491m gain (2015: £267m gain) to interest expense; £nil (2015: £4m loss) to net trading income; a £17m gain (2015: £17m gain) 
to administration and general expenses; and a £75m loss (2015: £69m loss) to taxation.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 303

16 Financial investments

Accounting for financial investments
Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value with gains and losses being included in other comprehensive income. The Group uses this 
classification for assets that are not derivatives and are not held for trading purposes or otherwise designated at fair value through profit or loss, 
or at amortised cost. Dividends and interest (calculated using the effective interest method) are recognised in the income statement in net 
interest income (Note 3) or, net investment income (Note 6). On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
is also included in net investment income.

Held to maturity assets are held at amortised cost. The Group uses this classification when there is an intent and ability to hold the asset to 
maturity. Interest on the investments are recognised in the income statement within Net interest income (Note 3). 

2016
£m

2015
£m

Available for sale debt securities and other eligible bills 57,703 89,278
Available for sale equity securities 438 989
Held to maturity debt securities 5,176  – 
Financial investments 63,317 90,267

In June 2016 UK Gilts previously classified as available for sale investments, were reclassified to held to maturity in order to reflect the intention with 
these assets. Any previous fair value gain or loss on the asset that has been accumulated within the available for sale reserve (Note 32) is amortised 
to profit or loss over the remaining life of the financial asset using the effective interest method.

17 Financial liabilities designated at fair value

Accounting for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss
In accordance with IAS 39, financial liabilities may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net 
trading income (Note 5) and net investment income (Note 6). The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the 
instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed by the 
Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics (Note 15 Derivative financial instruments).

The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial liabilities designated at fair value are described in Note 18 Fair value of assets 
and liabilities.

2016 2015

Fair value
£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m
Fair value

£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m

Debt securities 34,985 37,034 33,177 36,097
Deposits 5,269 5,303 6,029 6,324
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 37  – 1,633  – 
Repurchase agreements 55,710 55,760 50,838 50,873
Other financial liabilities 30 30 68 68
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 96,031 98,127 91,745 93,362

The cumulative own credit net loss recognised is £239m (2015: £226m).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
304 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments

Accounting for financial assets and liabilities – fair values
The Group applies IAS 39. All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date of initial recognition and, depending on the 
classification of the asset or liability, may continue to be held at fair value either through profit or loss or other comprehensive income. The fair 
value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.

Wherever possible, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument. For many of the Group's financial assets and 
liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not available and valuation models are used to estimate fair value. The models calculate the 
expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value. These models use as their 
basis independently-sourced market parameters including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option 
volatilities and currency rates.

For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads calibrated to 
observable market data such as in primary issuance and redemption activity for structured notes. Own credit spreads for instruments issued out 
of Barclays Bank PLC were previously derived from Barclays Bank PLC issued vanilla debt in the secondary market but, due to extensive bond 
buy-back programmes, observations of Barclays Bank PLC secondary market bond prices have significantly decreased and no longer provide a 
reliable estimation for the fair value measurement.

On initial recognition, it is presumed that the transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active market 
to the contrary. The best evidence of an instrument's fair value on initial recognition is typically the transaction price. However, if fair value can be 
evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, or is based on a valuation technique whose 
inputs include only data from observable markets, then the instrument should be recognised at the fair value derived from such observable 
market data.

For valuations that have made use of unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction price  
(‘Day One profit') is recognised in profit or loss either: on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction; or where appropriate over the period 
until all model inputs will become observable or released in full when previously unobservable inputs become observable.

Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may vary from product to product and change over time. Factors include 
the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, the 
maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction (bespoke or generic). To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs 
that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more subjective, depending on the significance of the unobservable 
input to the overall valuation. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by reference to similar 
assets, similar maturities or other analytical techniques.

The sensitivity of valuations used in the financial statements to possible changes in significant unobservable inputs is shown on page 314.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The valuation of financial instruments often involves a significant degree of judgement and complexity, in particular where valuation models make 
use of unobservable inputs (‘Level 3' assets and liabilities). This note provides information on these instruments, including the related unrealised 
gains and losses recognised in the period, a description of significant valuation techniques and unobservable inputs, and a sensitivity analysis.

Valuation
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement requires an entity to classify its assets and liabilities according to a hierarchy that reflects the observability of 
significant market inputs. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.

Quoted market prices – Level 1 
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. Such instruments are valued by reference to unadjusted 
quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing 
information on an ongoing basis. 

Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2 
Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable either directly or indirectly. Valuations based 
on observable inputs include assets and liabilities such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing techniques, and 
options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable. 

Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs). A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if there is 
compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price. Unobservable input levels are generally determined via reference to observable 
inputs, historical observations or using other analytical techniques. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 305

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Groups' assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value hierarchy) and 
balance sheet classification:

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Valuation technique using

Quoted
 market 

prices 
(Level 1)

£m

Observable
 inputs 

(Level 2)
£m

Significant
 unobservable

 inputs 
(Level 3)

£m
Total

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Trading portfolio assets 41,550 36,625 2,065 80,240
Financial assets designated at fair value 4,031 64,630 9,947 78,608
Derivative financial assets 5,261 332,819 8,546 346,626
Available for sale investments 21,218 36,551 372 58,141
Investment property  –  – 81 81
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for salea 6,754 8,511 6,009 21,274
Total assets 78,814 479,136 27,020 584,970

Trading portfolio liabilities (20,205) (14,475) (7) (34,687)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value (70) (95,121) (840) (96,031)
Derivative financial liabilities (5,051) (328,265) (7,171) (340,487)
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for salea (397) (5,224) (6,201) (11,822)
Total liabilities (25,723) (443,085) (14,219) (483,027)

As at 31 December 2015
Trading portfolio assets 36,676 35,725 4,947 77,348
Financial assets designated at fair value 6,163 52,909 17,758 76,830
Derivative financial assets 6,342 315,949 5,418 327,709
Available for sale investments 42,552 46,693 1,022 90,267
Investment property  –  – 140 140
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for salea 26 8 7,330 7,364
Total assets 91,759 451,284 36,615 579,658

Trading portfolio liabilities (23,978) (9,989)  – (33,967)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value (240) (90,203) (1,302) (91,745)
Derivative financial liabilities (5,450) (314,033) (4,769) (324,252)
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for salea (1,024) (802) (4,171) (5,997)
Total liabilities (30,692) (415,027) (10,242) (455,961)



Note 
a  Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table. For disposal groups measured at carrying amount, the underlying 

financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are included in the fair value disclosures on pages 305 to 318 and items measured at amortised cost are included on page 319. 
Non-financial assets (£6.6bn) and liabilities (£1.7bn) within disposal groups measured at carrying amount are excluded from these disclosures.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
306 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Group's assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value hierarchy) 
and product type.

Assets and liabilities held at fair value by product type
Assets

Valuation technique using
Liabilities

Valuation technique using
Quoted
market 
prices

(Level 1)
£m

Observable
inputs

(Level 2)
£m

Significant
unobservable

inputs
(Level 3)

£m

Quoted
market
 prices

(Level 1)
£m

Observable
inputs

(Level 2)
£m

Significant
unobservable

inputs
(Level 3)

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Interest rate derivatives  – 222,892 5,759  – (215,213) (4,860)
Foreign exchange derivatives  – 79,612 132  – (78,263) (51)
Credit derivatives  – 14,662 1,611  – (14,844) (241)
Equity derivatives 4,210 11,842 1,037 (4,058) (15,808) (2,007)
Commodity derivatives 1,052 3,809 8 (991) (4,138) (13)
Government and government sponsored debt 31,203 49,834 3 (12,761) (11,454)  – 
Corporate debt 46 11,921 969 (27) (1,907) (5)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments  – 994  –  – (6,936) (319)
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  – 63,162  –  – (55,710)  – 
Non-asset backed loans  – 2,888 8,767  –  –  – 
Asset backed securities  – 1,956 515  – (256)  – 
Commercial real estate loans  –  – 442  –  –  – 
Issued debt  –  –  –  – (31,973) (298)
Equity cash products 35,399 6,478 150 (7,416) (934) (2)
Funds and fund linked products 53 137 273  – (170) (37)
Private equity investments 23 110 856  – (18) (12)
Assets and liabilities held for sale 6,754 8,511 6,009 (397) (5,224) (6,201)
Othera 74 328 489 (73) (237) (173)
Total 78,814 479,136 27,020 (25,723) (443,085) (14,219)

As at 31 December 2015
Interest rate derivatives  – 228,751 2,675  – (218,864) (2,247)
Foreign exchange derivatives 2 54,839 95 (4) (58,594) (196)
Credit derivatives  – 16,279 1,902  – (16,405) (219)
Equity derivatives 3,830 9,279 690 (2,870) (14,037) (1,545)
Commodity derivatives 2,510 6,801 56 (2,576) (6,133) (562)
Government and government sponsored debt 55,150 52,967 419 (15,036) (5,474) (1)
Corporate debt 352 11,598 2,895 (234) (4,558) (15)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments 82 503  – (5) (6,955) (382)
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  – 49,513  –  – (50,838)  – 
Non-asset backed loans  – 1,931 16,828  –  –  – 
Asset backed securities  – 12,009 770  – (384) (37)
Commercial real estate loans  –  – 551  –  –  – 
Issued debt  –  –  –  – (29,695) (546)
Equity cash products 29,704 4,038 171 (8,943) (221)  – 
Funds and fund linked products  – 1,649 378  – (1,601) (148)
Private equity investments 7 283 1,388  –  –  – 
Assets and liabilities held for sale 26 8 7,330 (1,024) (802) (4,171)
Othera 96 836 467  – (466) (173)
Total 91,759 451,284 36,615 (30,692) (415,027) (10,242)

Note
a Other includes asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 307

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Valuation techniques and sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative 
valuations. The sensitivity methodologies applied take account of the nature of the valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and reliability 
of observable proxy and historical data and the impact of using alternative models. 

Sensitivities are dynamically calculated on a monthly basis. The calculation is based on range or spread data of a reliable reference source or a 
scenario based on relevant market analysis alongside the impact of using alternative models. Sensitivities are calculated without reflecting the impact 
of any diversification in the portfolio. 

The valuation techniques used for the material products within Levels 2 and 3, and observability and sensitivity analysis for products within Level 3, 
are described below.

Interest rate derivatives 
Description: These are derivatives linked to interest rates or inflation indices. This category includes futures, interest rate and inflation swaps, 
swaptions, caps, floors, inflation options, balance guaranteed swaps and other exotic interest rate derivatives.

Valuation: Interest rate derivative cash flows are valued using interest rate yield curves whereby market data is used to construct the term structure 
of forward rates. This is then used to project and discount future cash flows based on the parameters of the trade. Instruments with optionality are 
valued using volatilities implied from market inputs. Exotic interest rate derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models based on 
observable and unobservable market parameter inputs. Input parameters include interest rates, volatilities, correlations and others as appropriate. 
Inflation forward curves and interest rate yield curves may be extrapolated beyond observable tenors.

Balance guaranteed swaps are valued using cash flow models that calculate fair value based on loss projections, prepayment, recovery and discount 
rates. These parameters are determined by reference to underlying asset performance.

Observability: In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each parameter and 
underlying. Certain correlation, convexity, long dated forwards and volatility exposures are unobservable beyond liquid maturities. Unobservable 
market data and model inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is based on the dispersion of consensus data services where available, 
otherwise stress scenarios or historic data are used.

Foreign exchange derivatives 
Description: These are derivatives linked to the foreign exchange (FX) market. This category includes FX forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options. 
The vast majority are traded as over the counter (OTC) derivatives.

Valuation: Exotic and non-exotic derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models. Input parameters include FX rates, interest 
rates, FX volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and others as appropriate. Unobservable model inputs are set by referencing 
liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the appropriate risk profile.

Observability: Certain correlations, long dated forwards and volatilities are unobservable beyond liquid maturities. 

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is primarily based on the dispersion of consensus data services. 

Credit derivatives
Description: These are derivatives linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity, index or basket of referenced entities or a pool of referenced 
assets via securitisation. This category includes single name and index credit default swaps (CDS), asset backed CDS, synthetic CDOs and  
Nth-to-default basket swaps.

Valuation: CDS are valued using a market standard model that incorporates the credit curve as its principal input. Credit spreads are observed 
directly from broker data, third-party vendors or priced to proxies. Where credit spreads are unobservable, they are determined with reference to 
recent transactions or proxied from bond spreads on observable trades of the same issuer or other similar entities. Synthetic CDOs are valued  
using a model that calculates fair value based on credit spreads, recovery rates, correlations and interest rates, and is calibrated to the index  
tranche market.

Observability: CDS contracts referencing entities that are not actively traded are considered unobservable. The correlation input to synthetic CDO 
valuation is considered unobservable as it is proxied from the observable index tranche market. Where an asset backed credit derivative does not 
have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a model, an instrument is considered unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of valuations of the illiquid CDS portfolio is determined by applying a shift to each spread curve. The shift is based 
on the average range of pricing observed in the market for similar CDS. Synthetic CDO sensitivity is calculated using correlation levels derived from 
the range of contributors to a consensus bespoke service.

Equity derivatives 
Description: These are derivatives linked to equity indices and single names. This category includes exchange traded and OTC equity derivatives 
including vanilla and exotic options.

Valuation: The valuations of OTC equity derivatives are determined using industry standard models. Input parameters include stock prices, dividends, 
volatilities, interest rates, equity repo curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations. Unobservable model inputs are determined by reference to 
liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the appropriate risk profile. 

Observability: In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each parameter and 
underlying. 

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is estimated based on the dispersion of consensus data services either directly or through proxies. 

Commodity derivatives 
Description: These products are exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on underlying commodities such as metals, crude oil and refined 
products, agricultural, power and natural gas. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
308 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Valuation: The valuations of commodity swaps and options are determined using models incorporating discounting of cash flows and other industry 
standard modelling techniques. Valuation inputs include forward curves, volatilities implied from market observable inputs and correlations. 
Unobservable inputs are set with reference to similar observable products or by applying extrapolation techniques from the observable market. 

Observability: Certain correlations, forward curves and volatilities for longer dated exposures are unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is determined primarily by measuring historical variability over two years. Where historical data is unavailable or 
uncertainty is due to volumetric risk, sensitivity is measured by applying appropriate stress scenarios or using proxy bid-offer spread levels. 

Complex derivative instruments
Valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to complex derivative instruments, for the purpose of determining the amount of collateral 
to be posted, often differ, sometimes significantly, from Barclays' own estimates. In almost all cases, Barclays has been able to successfully resolve 
such differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases by entering into 
compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of collateral calls, Barclays will often be engaged in discussion with one or more 
counterparties in respect of such differences at any given time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes are considered, 
like any other third-party valuation, when determining Barclays' fair value estimates.

Government and government sponsored debt
Description: These are government bonds, supra sovereign bonds and agency bonds. 

Valuation: Liquid government bonds actively traded through an exchange or clearing house are marked to the closing levels observed in these 
markets. Less liquid bonds are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable 
pricing services. Where there are no observable market prices, fair value is determined by reference to yields on other bonds from the same issuer. 

Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the bond is considered Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated by using the range of observable proxy prices.

Corporate debt
Description: This primarily contains corporate bonds. 

Valuation: Corporate bonds are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable 
pricing services. Where there are no observable market prices, fair value is determined by reference to either issuances or CDS spreads of the same 
issuer as proxy inputs to obtain discounted cash flow amounts. In the absence of observable bond or CDS spreads for the respective issuer, similar 
reference assets or sector averages are applied as a proxy (the appropriateness of proxies being assessed based on issuer, coupon, maturity and 
industry). 

Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the security is considered Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of the corporate bonds portfolio is determined by applying a shift to each underlying position driven by average 
ranges of external levels observed in the market for similar bonds.

Certificates of Deposit, Commercial Paper and other money market instruments
Description: These are certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments.

Valuation: Certificates of deposit and commercial paper are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes inter-dealer 
prices or other reliable pricing services. Where there are no observable market prices, fair value is determined by reference to either issuances or CDS 
spreads of the same issuer as proxy inputs to obtain discounted cash flow amounts. In the absence of observable bond or CDS spreads for the 
respective issuer, similar reference assets or sector averages are applied as a proxy (the appropriateness of proxies being assessed based on issuer, 
coupon, maturity and industry).

Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the instrument is considered Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated by using the range of observable proxy prices. 

Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements
Description: These include securities purchased under resale agreements, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and other similar secured 
lending agreements. 

Valuation: Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements are valued by discounting the expected future cash flows. The inputs to the valuation 
include interest rates and repo rates, which are determined based on the specific parameters of the transaction. 

Observability: In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities, as determined based on the specific parameters of the 
transaction. Unobservable market data and model inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques or 
inferred via another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is based on the dispersion of consensus data services where available, 
otherwise stress scenarios or historic data are used. In general, the sensitivity of unobservable inputs is insignificant to the overall balance sheet 
valuation given the predominantly short-term nature of the agreements.

Non-asset backed loans
Description: This category is largely made up of fixed rate loans, primarily the ESHLA portfolio, which are valued using models that discount expected 
future cash flows.

Valuation: Fixed rate loans are valued using models that calculate fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable loan spreads. 
Unobservable loan spreads incorporate funding costs, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, issuer credit quality and other factors.

Observability: Within this population, the unobservable input is the loan spread.

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of fixed rate loans is calculated by applying a shift to loan spreads.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 309

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Asset backed securities
Description: These are securities that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets via securitisation. This category includes residential 
mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, CDOs, collateralised loan obligations (CLOs) and other asset backed securities.

Valuation: Where available, valuations are based on observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes and inter-dealer prices. 
Otherwise, valuations are determined using industry standard discounted cash flow analysis that calculates the fair value based on valuation inputs 
such as constant default rate, conditional prepayment rate, loss given default and yield. These inputs are determined by reference to a number of 
sources including proxying to observed transactions, market indices or market research, and by assessing underlying collateral performance. 

Proxying to observed transactions, indices or research requires an assessment and comparison of the relevant securities' underlying attributes 
including collateral, tranche, vintage, underlying asset composition (historical losses, borrower characteristics and loan attributes such as  
loan-to-value ratio and geographic concentration) and credit ratings (original and current). 

Observability: Where an asset backed product does not have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a discounted cash 
flow analysis, the instrument is considered unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity analysis for asset backed products is based on externally sourced pricing dispersion or by stressing the inputs of 
discount cash flow analysis.

Commercial real estate loans
Description: This portfolio includes loans that are secured by a range of commercial property types including retail, hotel, office, multi-family and 
industrial properties. 

Valuation: Performing loans are valued using discounted cash flow analysis which considers the characteristics of the loan such as property type, 
geographic location, credit quality and property performance reviews in order to determine an appropriate credit spread. Where there is significant 
uncertainty regarding loan performance, valuation is based on independent third-party appraisals or bids for the underlying properties. Independent 
third party appraisals are determined by discounted cash flow analysis. The key valuation inputs are yield and loss given default.

Observability: Since each commercial real estate loan is unique in nature and the secondary loan market is relatively illiquid, valuation inputs are 
generally considered unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: For performing loans, sensitivity is determined by stressing the credit spread for each loan. For loans which have significant 
uncertainty regarding loan performance, sensitivity is determined by either a range of bids or by stressing the inputs to independent third party 
appraisals.

Issued debt
Description: This category contains Barclays issued notes.

Valuation: Fair valued Barclays issued notes are valued using discounted cash flow techniques and industry standard models incorporating various 
input parameters observed for each parameter or instrument.

Observability: Barclays issued notes are generally observable. Structured notes are debt instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where either 
an input to the embedded derivative or the debt instrument is deemed unobservable and significant to the overall valuation of the note, the 
structured note is classified as Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to the unobservable input in the embedded derivative is calculated in line with the method used for the derivative 
instrument concerned.

Equity cash products
Description: This category includes listed equities, Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) and preference shares.

Valuation: Valuation of equity cash products is primarily determined through market observable prices.

Observability: Prices are generally observed in the market. Where a price for an equity security is not available, the instrument is considered 
unobservable.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated based on a stressed valuation on the underlying asset.

Funds and fund linked products
Description: This category includes holdings in hedge funds and funds of funds.

Valuation: In general, fund holdings are valued based on the latest available valuation received from the fund administrator. In the case of illiquid 
fund holdings the valuation will take account of all available information in relation to the underlying fund or collection of funds and may be adjusted 
relative to the performance of relevant index benchmarks.

Observability: Funds are deemed unobservable where the fund is either suspended, in wind-down, has a redemption restriction that severely affects 
liquidity, or where the latest net asset value from the fund administrators is older than the frequency dictated by the fund offering documents.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated on an individual fund basis using a loss-based scenario approach which factors in the underlying assets  
of the specific fund and assumed recovery rates.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
310 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Private equity investments
Description: This category includes private equity investments. 

Valuation: Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the ‘International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines'.  
These require the use of a number of individual pricing benchmarks such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar entities, 
discounted cash flow analysis and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed comparative companies. Full valuations are generally  
performed at least bi-annually, with the positions reviewed periodically for material events that might impact upon fair value. The valuation  
of unquoted equity instruments is subjective by nature. However, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market  
participants and have been consistently applied over time. 

Observability: Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative companies, marketability discounts and discount rates. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The relevant valuation models are each sensitive to a number of key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, comparator 
multiples, marketability discounts and discount rates. Valuation sensitivity is estimated by flexing such assumptions to reasonable alternative levels 
and determining the impact on the resulting valuation. 

Assets and liabilities held for sale
Description: Assets and liabilities held for sale materially consist of the intention to dispose of BAGL, France, Egypt, BVP and Zimbabwe.

Valuation: Assets and liabilities held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The disposal groups that are measured at fair value less cost to sell are valued at the agreed price less costs to sell and are not 
expected to display significant sensitivity. The sensitivity of the assets and liabilities measured at carrying value is explained within the relevant 
product descriptions. 

Other
Description: Other includes asset-backed loans, physical commodities and investment property. 

Assets and liabilities reclassified between Level 1 and Level 2
There were transfers of £2,340m of government bond assets during the period from Level 2 to Level 1 to reflect the market observability of these 
product types (2015: £537m assets and £801m liabilities of equity and foreign exchange derivatives transferred from Level 1 to Level 2).

Level 3 movement analysis
The following table summarises the movements in the Level 3 balances during the period. The table shows gains and losses and includes amounts 
for all financial assets and liabilities that are held at fair value transferred to, and from, Level 3 during the period. Transfers have been reflected as if 
they had taken place at the beginning of the year.

Assets and liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are not included as these are 
measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.

Asset and liability transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 are primarily due to i) an increase or decrease in observable market activity related to  
an input or ii) a change in the significance of the unobservable input, with assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 if an unobservable input is 
deemed significant. 

During the year:
■■ £2.1bn of corporate bonds were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 to reflect the market observability of the products;
■■ £8.6bn of non-asset backed loans were derecognised due to a substantial modification of terms on the ESHLA loans. The new restructured loans 

are measured on an amortised cost basis; and
■■ Market moves in the interest rate and inflation markets have resulted in an increase in the value of the Level 3 assets being reported, the gains 

have largely been offset through Level 2 hedges. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 311

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2016a
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settle-
ments 

£m

Total gains and 
losses in the period 
recognised in the 
income statement

 
Total 

gains or
 losses re-

cognised
 in OCI

£m

Transfers As at 31 
December 

2016
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 320   –   (317)   –     –     –     –     –     –     –   3 
Corporate debt 2,843 38 (48)   –   (5) 206   –     –   32 (2,097) 969 
Non-asset backed loans 507 173 (498)   –   (4) (38)   –     –   18 (7) 151 
Asset backed securities 743 129 (295)   –   (171) 111   –     –   1 (3) 515 
Funds and fund linked products 340   –   (77)   –     –   23   –     –   1 (14) 273 
Other 155 59 (16)   –   (1) (8)   –     –     –   (35) 154 
Trading portfolio assets 4,908 399 (1,251)   –   (181) 294   –     –   52 (2,156) 2,065 

Non-asset backed loans 15,963   –     –     –   (8,602) 1,155 100   –     –     –   8,616 
Asset backed loans 256 48 (225)   –   (20) 30   –     –   112   –   201 
Commercial real estate loans 543 2,658 (2,755)   –   (12) 56   –     –     –   (48) 442 
Private equity investments 457 38 (51)   –   (3) 16 120   –   6 (21) 562 
Other 78   –     –     –   (21) (19) 85   –   41 (38) 126 
Financial assets designated 
at fair value 17,297 2,744 (3,031)   –   (8,658) 1,238 305   –   159 (107) 9,947 

Private equity investments 877 15 (254)   –   (407)   –     –   63   –     –   294 
Other 44 53 (14)   –   (16)   –   4 7 1 (1) 78 
Available for sale investments 921 68 (268)   –   (423)   –   4 70 1 (1) 372 

Investment property 82   –   (3)   –     –     –   2   –     –     –   81 

Trading portfolio liabilities   –     –   (9)   –     –   (1)   –     –     –   3 (7)

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (272)   –     –   (19) 48 2 (7)   –   (301) 230 (319)
Issued debt (538)   –     –     –   231   –   9   –     –     –   (298)
Other (244)   –     –     –   83 (48) (2)   –   (50) 38 (223)
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value (1,054)   –     –   (19) 362 (46)   –     –   (351) 268 (840)

Interest rate derivatives 418 45 3   –   (6) 228   –     –   294 (83) 899 
Foreign exchange derivatives (104)   –   30 2 40 6   –     –   55 52 81 
Credit derivatives 1,685 2 (306)   –   (119) 111   –     –   3 (6) 1,370 
Equity derivatives (857) 196 7 (83) (34) (98)   –     –   (15) (86) (970)
Commodity derivatives (506)   –     –     –   91 (3)   –     –     –   413 (5)
Net derivative financial 
instrumentsb 636 243 (266) (81) (28) 244   –     –   337 290 1,375 

Assets and liabilities held for sale 424 126 (166) (116) 85   –   172   –     –   49 574 

Total 23,214 3,580 (4,994) (216) (8,843) 1,729 483 70 198 (1,654) 13,567 

Net liabilities held for sale 
measured at fair value on 
non-recurring basis (766)
Total 12,801 

Notes
a The Level 3 opening balances have been amended to exclude the asset and liabilities held for sale.
b The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis. On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are £8,546m (2015: £5,418m) and derivative financial liabilities are 

£7,171m (2015: £4,769m).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
312 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2015
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settlements 
£m

Total gains and 
losses in the period 
recognised in the 
income statement

 
Total 

gains or
 losses re-
cognised

 in OCI
£m

Transfers As at 31 
December 

2015
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 685 27 (119)   –   (109) (6)   –     –   2 (160) 320 
Corporate debt 3,026 62 (64)   –   (20) (47)   –     –   5 (80) 2,882 
Non-asset backed loans 273 520 (251)   –   (3) (42)   –     –   11 (1) 507 
Asset backed securities 1,610 1,365 (1,565)   –   (711) 58   –     –   5 (19) 743 
Funds and fund linked products 589   –   (174)   –   (56) (27)   –     –   12 (4) 340 
Other 144 23 (19)   –   (9) (14)   –     –   53 (23) 155 
Trading portfolio assets 6,327 1,997 (2,192)   –  (908) (78)   –    –  88 (287) 4,947 

Non-asset backed loans 17,471 192 (114)   –   (756) (531) (6)   –     –     –   16,256 
Asset backed loans 393 1,098 (1,260)   –   2 8   –     –   15   –   256 
Commercial real estate loans 1,179 3,540 (3,878)   –   (342) 49 1   –     –     –   549 
Private equity investments 701 94 (200)   –   (3) 8 38   –   4 (132) 510 
Other 161 66 (31)   –   (3) (11) 5   –   26 (26) 187 
Financial assets designated 
at fair value 19,905 4,990 (5,483)   –   (1,102) (477) 38   –   45 (158) 17,758 

Government and government 
sponsored debt 327 14 (36)   –     –     –     –   1   –   (212) 94 
Private equity investments 425 29 (89)   –     –     –   471 22   –   20 878 
Other 561 36 (2)   –   (1,026)   –   78 397 27 (21) 50 
Available for sale investments 1,313 79 (127)   –   (1,026)   –   549 420 27 (213) 1,022 

Investment property 207 27 (89)   –     –     –   (5)   –     –     –   140 

Trading portfolio liabilities (349)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 349  – 

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (666)  –  – (216) 261  – 17  –  – 221 (383)
Issued debt (748)  –  – (16) 245 (4) (8)  – (38) 4 (565)
Other (402)  –  –  – (19) (18) 75  –  – 10 (354)
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value (1,816)  –  – (232) 487 (22) 84  – (38) 235 (1,302)

Interest rate derivatives (105) 1 218  – (247) 203  –  – 243 117 430
Foreign exchange derivatives (30) 14 (1) (7) 9 (14)  –  – (73)  – (102)
Credit derivatives 1,557 273 (12)  – (6) (123)  –  – (11) 7 1,685
Equity derivatives (845) 111 (2) (290) 103 34  –  – (21) 52 (858)
Commodity derivatives (152)  –  –  – (66) (6)  –  – (388) 106 (506)
Net derivative financial 
instrumentsa 425 399 203 (297) (207) 94  –  – (250) 282 649

Total 26,012 7,492 (7,688) (529) (2,756) (483) 666 420 (128) 208 23,214

Net assets held for sale measured 
at fair value on non-recurring basis 3,159
Total 26,373

Note
a The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis. On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are £8,546m (2015: £5,418m) and derivative financial liabilities are 

£7,171m (2015: £4,769m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 313

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Unrealised gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities
The following table discloses the unrealised gains and losses recognised in the year arising on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities held at year end.

Unrealised gains and losses recognised during the period on Level 3 assets and liabilities held at period end

As at 31 December

2016 2015
Income statement Other

 compre-
hensive
income

£m
Totala

£m

Income statement Other 
compre-
hensive
 income

£m
Total

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m

Trading portfolio assets 243  –  – 243 (125)  –  – (125)
Financial assets designated at fair value 227 271  – 498 (562) (17)  – (579)
Available for sale investments  – 6 70 76  – (20) 488 468
Investment property  – 2  – 2  – (22)  – (22)
Trading portfolio liabilities (1)  –  – (1) (1)  –  – (1)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 96 (6)  – 90 (24) 76  – 52
Net derivative financial instruments 175  –  – 175 123  –  – 123
Assets and liabilities held for sale  – 128  – 128  –  –  –  – 
Total 740 401 70 1,211 (589) 17 488 (84)

Note
a The £1.2bn unrealised gain on Level 3 assets (2015: £84m loss) is largely offset by losses on related Level 2 and Level 1 portfolio hedges.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
314 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued

Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs
Fair value Favourable changes Unfavourable changes

Total
assets

£m

Total
liabilities

£m

Income
statement

£m
Equity

£m

Income
statement

£m
Equity

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Interest rate derivatives 5,759 (4,860) 209  – (249)  – 
Foreign exchange derivatives 132 (51) 15  – (15)  – 
Credit derivatives 1,611 (241) 127  – (133)  – 
Equity derivatives 1,037 (2,007) 163  – (164)  – 
Commodity derivatives 8 (13) 5  – (5)  – 
Government and government sponsored debt 3  –  –  –  –  – 
Corporate debt 969 (5) 7  – (2)  – 
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments  – (319)  –  – (1)  – 
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Non asset backed loans 8,767  – 462  – (597)  – 
Asset backed securities 515  – 1  – (1)  – 
Commercial real estate loans 442  – 2  – (2)  – 
Issued debt  – (298)  –  –  –  – 
Equity cash products 150 (2) 12 26 (11) (26)
Funds and fund linked products 273 (37) 6  – (6)  – 
Private equity investments 856 (12) 104 18 (104) (21)
Assets and liabilities held for sale 699 (125) 3  – (3)  – 
Othera 489 (173) 147  – (105)  – 
Total 21,710 (8,143) 1,263 44 (1,398) (47)

As at 31 December 2015
Interest rate derivatives 2,675 (2,247) 93  – (103)  – 
Foreign exchange derivatives 95 (196) 17  – (17)  – 
Credit derivatives 1,902 (219) 66  – (96)  – 
Equity derivatives 690 (1,545) 167  – (185)  – 
Commodity derivatives 56 (562) 13  – (13)  – 
Government and government sponsored debt 419 (1) 4  – (4)  – 
Corporate debt 2,895 (15) 10 1 (5) (1)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments  – (382)  –  –  –  – 
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Non asset backed loans 16,828  – 1,581  – (1,564)  – 
Asset backed securities 770 (37) 1  – (1)  – 
Commercial real estate loans 551  – 24  – (1)  – 
Issued debt  – (546)  –  –  –  – 
Equity cash products 171  –  – 17  – (17)
Funds and fund linked products 378 (148) 1  – (1)  – 
Private equity investments 1,388  – 149 318  (149) (53)
Othera 467 (173) 5  – (23)  –
Total 29,285 (6,071) 2,131 336 (2,162) (71)

The effect of stressing unobservable inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives, alongside considering the impact of using alternative 
models, would be to increase fair values by up to £1.3bn (2015: £2.1bn) or to decrease fair values by up to £1.4bn (2015: £2.2bn) with substantially 
all the potential effect impacting profit and loss rather than reserves. 

Note
a  Other includes asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 315

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Significant unobservable inputs
The following table discloses the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities recognised at fair value and 
classified as Level 3 along with the range of values used for those significant unobservable inputs:

Total 
assets

£m

Total
 liabilities

£m
Valuation

 technique(s)
Significant 

unobservable inputs

2016
Range

2015
Range

UnitsaMin Max Min Max

Derivative financial 
instrumentsb

Interest rate 5,759 (4,860) Discounted cash flows Inflation forwards (1) 8  – 8 %
derivatives Credit spread 25 1,669 25 1,563 bps

Option model Inflation volatility 35 207 36 197 bp vol
IR  –  IR correlation (26) 98 (55) 100 %

FX  –  IR correlation (15) 81 (20) 30 %
Interest rate volatility 9 295 5 249 bp vol

Credit derivatives 1,611 (241) Discounted cash flows Credit spread 133 274 140 413 bps
Correlation model Credit correlation 25 43 26 41 %

Credit spread 13 2,317 10 9,923 bps
Comparable pricing Price 84 100 80 102 points

Equity derivatives 1,037 (2,007) Option model Equity volatility 1 150  – 318 %
Equity  –  equity

 correlation (90) 100 (54) 100 %
Equity  –  FX correlation (80) 25 (100) 40 %

Non-derivative financial 
instruments

Corporate debt 969 (5) Discounted cash flows Credit spread 145 190 120 529 bps
Comparable pricing Price  – 121 1 114 points

Non-asset backed loans 8,767  – Discounted cash flows Loan spread 30 1,495 3 994 bps
Price  – 99  – 100 points

Comparable pricing Price  – 100  – 101 points

Asset backed securities 515  – Discounted cash flows
Conditional 

prepayment rate  –  –  – 25 %
Constant default rate  –  –  – 2 %

Loss given default  –  – 30 100 %
Yield  –  – 5 58 %

Credit spread 70 150 157 1,416 bps
Commercial real estate 
loans 442  – Discounted cash flows Loss given default  – 100  – 100 %

Credit spread 179 408 230 801 bps
Private equity investments 856 (12) Discounted cash flows Loss given default  –  –  – 94 %

EBITDA multiple EBITDA multiple 5 17  – 12 multiple
Otherc 1,754 (1,018)

Total 21,710 (8,143)

Notes
a   The units used to disclose ranges for significant unobservable inputs are percentages, points and basis points. Points are a percentage of par; for example, 100 points equals  

100% of par. A basis point equals 1/100th of 1%; for example, 150 basis points equals 1.5%.
b Certain derivative instruments are classified as Level 3 due to a significant unobservable credit spread input into the calculation of the Credit Valuation Adjustment for the     

instruments. The range of significant unobservable credit spreads is between 65-874bps (2015: 67-1,175bps).   
c Other includes the remaining Level 3 assets and liabilities.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
316 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the table above, and the sensitivity of fair value measurement  
of the instruments categorised as Level 3 assets or liabilities to increases in significant unobservable inputs. Where sensitivities are described,  
the inverse relationship will also generally apply.

Where reliable inter-relationships can be identified between significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement, a description of those 
inter-relationships is included below.

Forwards
A price or rate that is applicable to a financial transaction that will take place in the future. A forward is generally based on the spot price or rate, 
adjusted for the cost of carry, and defines the price or rate that will be used to deliver a currency, bond, commodity or some other underlying 
instrument at a point in the future. A forward may also refer to the rate fixed for a future financial obligation, such as the interest rate on a loan 
payment. In general, a significant increase in a forward in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the contracted receiver 
of the underlying (currency, bond, commodity, etc.), but the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.

Credit spread
Credit spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Credit spreads reflect 
the additional yield that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument and form part of the yield used in 
a discounted cash flow calculation.

In general, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a cash asset.

For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable 
depending on the specific terms of the instrument.

Volatility
Volatility is a key input in the valuation of derivative products containing optionality. Volatility is a measure of the variability or uncertainty in returns 
for a given derivative underlying. It represents an estimate of how much a particular underlying instrument, parameter or index will change in value 
over time. In general, volatilities will be implied from observed option prices. For unobservable options the implied volatility may reflect additional 
assumptions about the nature of the underlying risk, as well as reflecting the given strike/maturity profile of a specific option contract.

In general a significant increase in volatility in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the holder of a simple option, but 
the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.

There may be inter-relationships between unobservable volatilities and other unobservable inputs that can be implied from observation, e.g. when 
equity prices fall, implied equity volatilities generally rise, but these are specific to individual markets and may vary over time.

Correlation
Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables ,i.e. how the change in one variable influences a change in the 
other variable. Correlation is a key input into valuation of derivative contracts with more than one underlying instrument. For example, where an 
option contract is written on a basket of underlying names, the volatility of the basket, and hence the fair value of the option, will depend on the 
correlation between the basket's components. Credit correlation generally refers to the correlation between default processes for the separate names 
that make up the reference pool of a collateralised debt obligation structure.

A significant increase in correlation in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific 
terms of the instrument.

Comparable price
Comparable instrument prices are used in valuation by calculating an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a 
comparable observable bond, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to derive a value for the unobservable bond. The adjustment to yield (or spread) 
should account for relevant differences in the bonds such as maturity or credit quality. Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between 
the comparable instrument and bond being valued in order to establish the value of the bond.

In general, a significant increase in comparable price in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the holder of a cash 
instrument.

For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in an input derived from a comparable price in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that 
is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.

Loan spread
Loan spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Loan spreads typically 
reflect funding costs, credit quality, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, and other factors, and form part of the yield used in a discounted 
cash flow calculation.

The ESHLA portfolio primarily consists of long dated fixed rate loans extended to counterparties in the UK Education, Social Housing and Local 
Authority sectors. The loans are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to their illiquid nature and the significance of unobservable loan 
spreads to the valuation. Valuation uncertainty arises from the long dated nature of the portfolio, the lack of a secondary market in the loans and the 
lack of observable loan spreads. The majority of ESHLA loans are to borrowers in heavily regulated sectors that are considered extremely low credit 
risk, and have a history of zero defaults since inception. While the overall loan spread range is from 30bps to 1,495bps (2015: 3bps to 994bps), the 
vast majority of spreads are concentrated towards the bottom end of this range, with 99% of the loan notional being valued with spreads less than 
200bps consistently for both years.

In general, a significant increase in loan spreads in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a loan.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 317

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Conditional prepayment rate
Conditional prepayment rate is the proportion of voluntary, unscheduled repayments of loan principal by a borrower. Prepayment rates affect the 
weighted average life of securities by altering the timing of future projected cash flows.

A significant increase in a conditional prepayment rate in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending 
on the specific terms of the instrument.

Conditional prepayment rates are typically inversely correlated to credit spread, i.e. securities with high borrower credit spread typically experience 
lower prepayment rates and also tend to experience higher default rates.

Constant default rate
The constant default rate represents an annualised rate of default of the loan principal by the borrower.

A significant increase in a constant default rate in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on  
the specific terms of the instrument.

Constant default rate and conditional prepayment rates are typically inversely correlated; fewer defaults on loans will typically mean higher credit 
quality and therefore more prepayments.

Loss given default (LGD)
Loss given default represents the expected loss upon liquidation of the collateral as a percentage of the balance outstanding.

In general, a significant increase in the LGD in isolation will translate to lower recovery and lower projected cash flows to pay to the securitisation, 
resulting in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of the securitised product.

Yield
The rate used to discount projected cash flows in a discounted future cash flow analysis.

In general, a significant increase in yield in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a cash instrument.

EBITDA Multiple
EBITDA multiple is the ratio of the valuation of the investment to the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. 

In general an increase in the multiple is favourable to the holder of the investment.

Fair value adjustments
Key balance sheet valuation adjustments are quantified below:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads (475) (509)
Uncollateralised derivative funding (82) (72)
Derivative credit valuation adjustments:
– Monolinesa  – (9)
– Other derivative credit valuation adjustments (237) (318)
Derivative debit valuation adjustments 242 189

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads
The Group uses mid-market pricing where it is a market maker and has the ability to transact at, or better than, mid price (which is the case for 
certain equity, bond and vanilla derivative markets). For other financial assets and liabilities, bid-offer adjustments are recorded to reflect the exit level 
for the expected close out strategy. The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves calculating the net 
risk exposure by offsetting long and short positions by strike and term in accordance with the risk management and hedging strategy.

Bid-offer levels are generally derived from market quotes such as broker data. Less liquid instruments may not have a directly observable bid-offer 
level. In such instances, an exit adjustment may be derived from an observable bid-offer level for a comparable liquid instrument, determined by 
calibrating to derivative prices, or by scenario or historical analysis.

Exit price adjustments have reduced by £34m to £475m as a result of risk reduction and spread tightening.

Note
a Derivative exposure to monoline insurers was exited in 2016.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
318 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Discounting approaches for derivative instruments 
Collateralised
In line with market practice, the methodology for discounting collateralised derivatives takes into account the nature and currency of the collateral 
that can be posted within the relevant credit support annex (CSA). This CSA-aware discounting approach recognises the ‘cheapest to deliver' option 
that reflects the ability of the party posting collateral to change the currency of the collateral.

For counterparties in dispute regarding the settlement of collateral interest, where the relevant rate is currently negative, an additional fair value 
adjustment of £24m is held to account for the potential impact of resolving the dispute. 

Uncollateralised
A fair value adjustment of £82m is applied to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised  
and partially collateralised derivative portfolios and collateralised derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not allow the rehypothecation  
of collateral received. This adjustment is referred to as the Funding Fair Value Adjustment (FFVA). FFVA has increased by £10m to £82m mainly  
as a result of material trade unwinds.

FFVA is determined by calculating the net expected exposure at a counterparty level and applying a funding rate to these exposures that reflects the 
market cost of funding. Barclays' internal Treasury rates are used as an input to the calculation. The approach takes into account the probability of 
default of each counterparty, as well as any mandatory break clauses.

FFVA incorporates a scaling factor which is an estimate of the extent to which the cost of funding is incorporated into observed traded levels. On 
calibrating the scaling factor, it is with the assumption that Credit Valuation Adjustments (CVA) and Debit Valuation Adjustments (DVA) are retained 
as valuation components incorporated into such levels. The effect of incorporating this scaling factor at 31 December 2016 was to reduce FFVA by 
£246m (2015: £216m).

Uncollateralised derivative trading activity is used to determine this scaling factor. The trading history analysed includes new trades, terminations, 
trade restructures and novations. The FFVA balance and movement is driven by Barclays' own cost of funding spread over LIBOR, counterparty 
default probabilities and recovery rates, as well as the market value of the underlying derivatives. Movements in the market value of the portfolio in 
scope for FFVA are mainly driven by interest rates, inflation rates and foreign exchange levels.

Barclays continues to monitor market practices and activity to ensure the approach to uncollateralised derivative valuation remains appropriate.  
The above approach has been in use since 2012 with no significant changes.

Derivative credit and debit valuation adjustments
CVAs and DVAs are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit risk and Barclays' own credit 
quality respectively. These adjustments are calculated for uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives across all asset classes. CVA and DVA 
are calculated using estimates of exposure at default, probability of default and recovery rates, at a counterparty level. Counterparties include (but are 
not limited to) corporates, sovereigns and sovereign agencies, supranationals and special purpose vehicles.

Exposure at default is generally based on expected exposure, estimated through the simulation of underlying risk factors. For some complex 
products, where this approach is not feasible, simplifying assumptions are made, either through approximating with a more vanilla structure, or 
using current or scenario-based mark to market as an estimate of future exposure. Where a strong CSA exists to mitigate counterparty credit risk, 
the exposure at default is set to zero.

Probability of default and recovery rate information is generally sourced from the CDS markets. For counterparties where this information is not 
available, or considered unreliable due to the nature of the exposure, alternative approaches are taken based on mapping internal counterparty 
ratings onto historical or market-based default and recovery information. In particular, this applies to sovereign-related names where the effect of 
using the recovery assumptions implied in CDS levels would imply a £95m (2015: £56m) increase in CVA.

Correlation between counterparty credit and underlying derivative risk factors may lead to a systematic bias in the valuation of counterparty credit 
risk, termed ‘wrong-way,' or ‘right-way', risk. This is not systematically incorporated into the CVA calculation but is adjusted where the underlying 
exposure is directly related to the counterparty. 

CVA decreased by £90m to £237m, primarily due to reductions in the average maturity of the portfolio driven by trade unwinds, including a 
reduction in monoline CVA of £9m. DVA increased by £53m to £242m, primarily as a result of Barclays' credit spreads widening.

Portfolio exemptions
The Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to measure the fair value of groups of financial assets and liabilities. 
Instruments are measured using the price that would be received to sell a net long position, i.e. an asset, for a particular risk exposure or to transfer a 
net short position, i.e. a liability, for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date under 
current market conditions. Accordingly, the Group measures the fair value of the group of financial assets and liabilities consistently with how market 
participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.

Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs
The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price (the fair value at initial recognition) 
and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently 
recognised, is £179m (2015: £187m). There are additions of £29m (2015: £42m) and £37m (2015: £51m) of amortisation and releases.

Third party credit enhancements
Structured and brokered certificates of deposit issued by Barclays are insured up to $250,000 per depositor by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) in the US. The FDIC is funded by premiums that Barclays and other banks pay for deposit insurance coverage. The carrying  
value of these issued certificates of deposit that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option includes this third party credit enhancement.  
The on-balance sheet value of these brokered certificates of deposit amounted to £3,905m (2015: £3,729m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 319

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values for assets and liabilities not held at fair value 
The following table summarises the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on the Group's balance sheet:

As at 31 December 2016

Carrying
 amount

£m
Fair value

£m

Quoted
 market 

prices 
(Level 1)

£m

Observable
 inputs 

(Level 2)
£m

Significant 
unobservable

 inputs 
(Level 3)

£m

Financial assets 
Held to maturitya 5,176 5,347 5,347  –  – 
Loans and advances to banks 43,251 43,228 7,256 34,987 985
Loans and advances to customers: 
– Home loans 144,765 141,155  –  – 141,155
– Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 57,808 57,699 737 42 56,920
– Finance lease receivablesb 1,602 1,598
– Corporate loans 188,609 186,715 – 126,979 59,736
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 13,454  – 13,454  – 
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for salec 43,593 44,838 1,070 4,614 39,154
 
Financial liabilities 
Deposits from banks (48,214) (48,212) (5,256) (42,895) (61)
Customer accounts: 
– Current and demand accounts (138,204) (138,197) (127,258) (10,921) (18)
– Savings accounts (133,344) (133,370) (120,471) (12,891) (8)
– Other time deposits (151,630) (151,632) (48,853) (96,240) (6,539)
Debt securities in issue (75,932) (76,971) (196) (74,712) (2,063)
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing (19,760) (19,760)  – (19,760)  – 
Subordinated liabilities (23,383) (24,547)  – (24,547)  – 
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for salec (51,775) (51,788) (22,264) (28,998) (526)

As at 31 December 2015
Financial assets 
Loans and advances to banks 41,349 41,301 5,933 34,125 1,243 
Loans and advances to customers: 
– Home loans 155,863 151,431   –     –   151,431 
– Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 67,840 67,805 1,148 284 66,373 
– Finance lease receivablesb 4,776 4,730 
– Corporate loans 170,738 169,697 585 129,847 39,265 
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 28,187 28,187   –   28,187   – 
 
Financial liabilities 
Deposits from banks (47,080) (47,080) (4,428) (42,652)   –   
Customer accounts: 
– Current and demand accounts (147,122) (147,121) (130,439) (16,537) (145)
– Savings accounts (135,567) (135,600) (122,029) (13,537) (34)
– Other time deposits (135,553) (135,796) (43,025) (84,868) (7,903)
Debt securities in issue (69,150) (69,863) (190) (69,122) (551)
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing (25,035) (25,035)   –   (25,035)   –   
Subordinated liabilities (21,467) (22,907)   –   (22,907)   –   

Notes
a  In June 2016 UK Gilts previously classified as available for sale were reclassified to held to maturity in order to reflect the intention with these assets.
b  The fair value hierarchy for finance lease receivables is not required as part of the standard. 
c  Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table. For disposal groups measured at carrying amount, the underlying 

financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are included in the fair value disclosures on pages 305 to 318 and items measured at amortised cost are included on page 319. 
Non-financial assets (£6.6bn) and liabilities (£1.7bn) within disposal groups measured at carrying amount are excluded from these disclosures.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
320 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value

18 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may not be appropriate to directly compare this fair 
value information to independent market sources or other financial institutions. Different valuation methodologies and assumptions can have a 
significant impact on fair values which are based on unobservable inputs.

Financial assets
The carrying value of financial assets held at amortised cost (including loans and advances to banks and customers, and other lending such as 
reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed) is determined in accordance with the relevant accounting policy in 
Note 20.

Loans and advances to banks
The fair value of loans and advances, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that reflects  
the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality. Where market data or credit information on the underlying borrowers is 
unavailable, a number of proxy/extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate discount rates.

There is minimal difference between the fair value and carrying amount due to the short-term nature of the lending, i.e. predominantly overnight 
deposit, and the high credit quality of counterparties.

Loans and advances to customers
The fair value of loans and advances to customers, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that 
reflects the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality.

For retail lending, i.e. Home loans and credit cards, tailored discounted cash flow models are used to estimate the fair value of different product 
types. For example, for home loans different models are used to estimate fair values of tracker, offset and fixed rate mortgage products.  
Key inputs to these models are the differentials between historic and current product margins and estimated prepayment rates.

The discount of fair value to carrying amount for home loans has reduced to 2.5% (2015: 2.8%) due to changes in product mix across the loan 
portfolio and movements in product margins.

The fair value of corporate loans is calculated by the use of discounted cash flow techniques where the gross loan values are discounted at a rate of 
difference between contractual margins and hurdle rates or spreads where Barclays charges a margin over LIBOR depending on credit quality and 
loss given default and years to maturity. The discount between the carrying and fair value has increased to 1.0% (2015: 0.6%).

Reverse repurchase agreements
The fair value of reverse repurchase agreements approximates carrying amount as these balances are generally short dated and fully collateralised.

Financial liabilities
The carrying value of financial liabilities held at amortised cost (including customer accounts, other deposits, repurchase agreements and cash 
collateral on securities lent, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities) is determined in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 22.

Deposits from banks and customer accounts
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that 
reprice frequently, such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities.

The fair value for deposits with longer-term maturities such as time deposits, are estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates 
or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities. Consequently the fair value discount is minimal.

Debt securities in issue
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where the instruments are short dated, carrying amount 
approximates fair value. The fair value difference has increased to 1.4% (2015: 1.0%).

Repurchase agreements
The fair value of repurchase agreements approximates carrying amounts as these balances are generally short dated.

Subordinated liabilities
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issuer concerned or issuers 
with similar terms and conditions.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 321

19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the 
balance sheet only if there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to  
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on:
■■ all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet
■■ all derivative financial instruments and reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing 

agreements that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements, but do not qualify for balance sheet netting.

The table identifies the amounts that have been offset in the balance sheet and also those amounts that are covered by enforceable netting 
arrangements (offsetting arrangements and financial collateral) but do not qualify for netting under the requirements of IAS 32 described above.

The ‘Net amounts' presented below are not intended to represent the Group's actual exposure to credit risk, as a variety of credit mitigation 
strategies are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements.

As at 31 December 2016

Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts 
not

 subject to
 enforceable

 netting
 arrange-

mentsc
£m

Balance 
sheet totald

£m

Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offseta

Gross
 amounts

£m

Amounts
 offsetb

£m

Net amounts
 reported on
 the balance

 sheet
£m

Financial 
instruments

£m

Financial
 collateral

£m

Net 
amount

£m

Derivative financial assets 353,078 (11,934) 341,144 (273,602) (49,923) 17,619 5,482 346,626
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lendinge 257,430 (187,262) 70,168  – (69,932) 236 6,448 76,616
Total assets 610,508 (199,196) 411,312 (273,602) (119,855) 17,855 11,930 423,242
Derivative financial liabilities (345,752) 10,962 (334,790) 273,602 47,383 (13,805) (5,697) (340,487)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowinge (257,854) 187,262 (70,592)  – 68,897 (1,695) (4,878) (75,470)
Total liabilities (603,606) 198,224 (405,382) 273,602 116,280 (15,500) (10,575) (415,957)

As at 31 December 2015
Derivative financial assets 328,692 (7,685) 321,007 (259,582) (42,402) 19,023 6,702 327,709
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 169,597 (102,888) 66,709  – (66,400) 309 10,991 77,700
Total assets 498,289 (110,573) 387,716 (259,582) (108,802) 19,332 17,693 405,409
Derivative financial liabilities (325,984) 7,645 (318,339) 259,582 40,124 (18,633) (5,913) (324,252)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowing (171,651) 102,888 (68,763)  – 68,202 (561) (7,110) (75,873)
Total liabilities (497,635) 110,533 (387,102) 259,582 108,326 (19,194) (13,023) (400,125)

Derivative assets and liabilities
The ‘Financial instruments' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA 
Master Agreement or derivative exchange or clearing counterparty agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty 
can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other 
predetermined events occur.

Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained, typically daily or weekly, to cover the net exposure between counterparties by 
enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing
The ‘Amounts offset' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as Global Master 
Repurchase Agreements and Global Master Securities Lending Agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can 
be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other predetermined 
events occur.

Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default.

These offsetting and collateral arrangements and other credit risk mitigation strategies used by the Group are further explained in the Credit risk 
mitigation section on page 150.

Notes
a Financial collateral of £49,923m (2015: £42,402m) was received in respect of derivative assets, including £41,641m (2015: £34,918m) of cash collateral and £8,282m (2015: 

£7,484m) of non-cash collateral. Financial collateral of £47,383m (2015: £40,124m) was placed in respect of derivative liabilities, including £43,763m (2015: £35,464m) of cash 
collateral and £3,620m (2015: £4,660m) of non-cash collateral. The collateral amounts are limited to net balance sheet exposure so as to not include over-collateralisation. Of the 
£41,641m (2015: £34,918m) cash collateral held, £26,834m (2015: £27,732m) was included in deposits from banks and £14,807m (2015: £7,186m), was included in customer 
accounts. Of the £43,763m (2015: £35,464m) cash collateral placed, £17,587m (2015: £13,238m) was included in loans and advances to banks and £26,176m (2015: £22,226m) 
was included in loans and advances to customers.

b Amounts offset for Derivative financial assets include cash collateral netted of £972m (2015: £572m). Amounts offset for Derivative liabilities did not include any cash collateral 
netted for December 2016 (2015: £532m). Settlements assets and liabilities have been offset amounting to £10,486m (2015: £8,886m). No other significant recognised financial 
assets and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet. Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for inclusion in the table are those shown above.

c This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
d The balance sheet total is the sum of ‘Net amounts reported on the balance sheet' that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and ‘Amounts not subject to enforceable 

netting arrangements'.
e Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase agreements include instruments at amortised cost and instruments designated at fair value through profit and loss. Reverse Repurchase 

agreements and other similar secured lending of £76,616m (December 2015: £77,700m) is split by fair value £63,162m (December 2015: £49,513m) and amortised cost £13,454m 
(December 2015: £28,187m). Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of £75,470m (December 2015: £75,873m) is split by fair value £55,710m (December 
2015: £50,838m) and amortised cost £19,760m (December 2015: £25,035m).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
322 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Financial instruments held at amortised cost

The notes included in this section focus on assets that are held at amortised cost arising from the Group's retail and wholesale lending including 
loans and advances, finance leases, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and similar secured lending. Detail regarding the Group's 
liquidity and capital position can be found on pages 200 to 224. 

Notes to the financial statements

20 Loans and advances to banks and customers

Accounting for financial instruments held at amortised cost
Loans and advances to customers and banks, customer accounts, debt securities and most financial liabilities, are held at amortised cost.  
That is, the initial fair value (which is normally the amount advanced or borrowed) is adjusted for repayments and the amortisation of coupon, 
fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability.

In accordance with IAS 39, where the Group no longer intends to trade in financial assets it may transfer them out of the held for trading 
classification and measure them at amortised cost if they meet the definition of a loan. The initial value used for the purposes of establishing 
amortised cost is fair value on the date of the transfer. 

As at 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m

Gross loans and advances to banks 43,251 41,349
Less: allowance for impairment  –  – 
Loans and advances to banks 43,251 41,349

Gross loans and advances to customers 397,404 404,138
Less: allowance for impairment (4,620) (4,921)
Loans and advances to customers 392,784 399,217

Included within the carrying value of gross loans and advances to customers are effective interest rate adjustments of £1,028m (2015: £917m). 
Of the total balance deferred, £649m (2015: £424m) relate to costs, such as co-brand partner fees, incurred to originate credit card balances.

21 Finance leases

Accounting for finance leases
The Group applies IAS 17 Leases in accounting for finance leases, both where it is the lessor or the lessee. A finance lease is a lease which confers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. Where the Group is the lessor, the leased asset is not held on the balance 
sheet; instead a finance lease receivable is recognised representing the minimum lease payments receivable under the terms of the lease, 
discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease. Where the Group is the lessee, the leased asset is recognised in property, plant and 
equipment and a finance lease liability is recognised, representing the minimum lease payments payable under the lease, discounted at the  
rate of interest implicit in the lease.

Interest income or expense is recognised in interest receivable or payable, allocated to accounting periods to reflect a constant periodic rate  
of return.

Finance lease receivables
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers. The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a 
broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies to provide customised finance programmes to assist 
manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.

2016 2015

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m

Not more than one year 646 (37) 609 60 1,826 (230) 1,596 117
Over one year but not more than five years 986 (57) 929 132 3,569 (555) 3,014 275
Over five years 73 (4) 69 19 224 (32) 192 21
Total 1,705 (98) 1,607 211 5,619 (817) 4,802 413

The decrease in finance lease receivables is primarily driven by BAGL balances now being classified as held for sale.

The impairment allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables amounted to £6m (2015: £56m).

Finance lease liabilities
The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases. Finance lease liabilities are included 
within Note 26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities.

As at 31 December 2016, the total future minimum payments under finance leases were £15m (2015: £nil). The carrying amount of assets held 
under finance leases was £15m (2015: £nil).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 323

22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing
Reverse repurchase agreements (and stock borrowing or similar transactions) are a form of secured lending whereby the Group provides a loan  
or cash collateral in exchange for the transfer of collateral, generally in the form of marketable securities subject to an agreement to transfer the 
securities back at a fixed price in the future. Repurchase agreements are where the Group obtains such loans or cash collateral, in exchange for  
the transfer of collateral.

Accounting for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing 
The Group purchases (a reverse repurchase agreement) or borrows securities subject to a commitment to resell or return them. The securities 
are not included in the balance sheet as the Group does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration paid (or cash collateral 
provided) is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss. 

The Group may also sell (a repurchase agreement) or lend securities subject to a commitment to repurchase or redeem them. The securities are 
retained on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration received (or cash collateral 
provided) is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss. 

2016
£m

2015
£m

Assets
Banks 2,769 8,954
Customers 10,685 19,233
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised costa 13,454 28,187

Liabilities
Banks 12,820 13,951
Customers 6,940 11,084
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing at amortised costa 19,760 25,035

Note
a New reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing in certain businesses have been designated at fair value following a change in 

accounting treatment implemented in 2015 to better align to the way the business manages the portfolio's risk and performance (see Notes 14 and 17 for further detail).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
324 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Non-current assets and other investments

The notes included in this section focus on the Group's non-current tangible and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment,  
which provide long-term future economic benefits. 

Notes to the financial statements

23 Property, plant and equipment

Accounting for property, plant and equipment
The Group applies IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Properties.

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and 
provisions for impairment, if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in the enhancement to the asset.

Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
economic lives. Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and 
equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances. The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating 
depreciation:

Annual rates in calculating depreciation Depreciation rate 

Freehold land  
Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property (more than 50 years to run)  
Leasehold property (less than 50 years to run)
Costs of adaptation of freehold and leasehold property
Equipment installed in freehold and leasehold property 
Computers and similar equipment 
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment

Not depreciated 
2-3.3% 
Over the remaining life of the lease 
6-10% 
6-10% 
17-33% 
9-20%

Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 17 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the 
remaining life of the lease.

Investment property
The Group initially recognises investment property at cost, and subsequently at fair value at each balance sheet date, reflecting market conditions 
at the reporting date. Gains and losses on remeasurement are included in the income statement.

Investment
property

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m

Leased
assets

£m
Total

£m

Cost
As at 1 January 2016 140 3,919 4,259 62 8,380
Additions – 167 370  – 537
Disposalsa (6) (761) (631)  – (1,398)
Change in fair value of investment properties  –  –  –  –  – 
Exchange and other movementsb (53) 104 (158) (52) (159)
As at 31 December 2016 81 3,429 3,840 10 7,360
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
As at 1 January 2016  – (1,697) (3,177) (38) (4,912)
Depreciation charge  – (186) (327)  – (513)
Disposalsa  – 635 405  – 1,040
Exchange and other movementsb  – (235) 56 29 (150)
As at 31 December 2016  – (1,483) (3,043) (9) (4,535)
Net book value 81 1,946 797 1 2,825
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 207 4,054 4,350 10 8,621
Additions 13 385 405 49 852
Disposals (84) (363) (232)  – (679)
Change in fair value of investment properties 10  –  –  – 10
Exchange and other movements (6) (157) (264) 3 (424)
As at 31 December 2015 140 3,919 4,259 62 8,380
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2015  – (1,669) (3,157) (9) (4,835)
Depreciation charge  – (181) (373)  – (554)
Disposals  – 144 159  – 303
Exchange and other movements  – 9 194 (29) 174
As at 31 December 2015  – (1,697) (3,177) (38) (4,912)
Net book value 140 2,222 1,082 24 3,468

Notes
a  Cost and depreciation disposals include £0.9bn relating to fully depreciated assets that are no longer in use. There is no impact on the net book value.
b  Includes property, plant and equipment relating to BAGL of £627m (cost of £1,066m less accumulated depreciation of £439m) which was reclassified to held for sale.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 325

23 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property rentals of £7m (2015: £9m) and £6m (2015: £9m) have been included in net investment income and other income respectively.  
Impairment of £21m (2015: £38m) was charged in the period.

The fair value of investment property is determined by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as necessary for condition 
and location, or by reference to recent transactions updated to reflect current economic conditions. Discounted cash flow techniques may be 
employed to calculate fair value where there have been no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market rents and 
interest rates. Valuations are carried out by management with the support of appropriately qualified independent valuers. Refer to Note 18 Fair value 
of financial instruments for further details.

24 Goodwill and intangible assets

Accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. It represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase 
consideration over the fair value of the Group's share of the assets acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date  
of the acquisition.

Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred. The test involves 
comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of the pre-tax cash flows, discounted at a rate of interest that reflects the inherent 
risks of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the goodwill relates, or the CGU's fair value if this is higher. 

Intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.

Intangible assets include brands, customer lists, internally generated software, other software, licences and other contracts and core deposit 
intangibles. They are initially recognised when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be measured reliably 
and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the 
assets will flow from their use.

Intangible assets are stated at cost (which is, in the case of assets acquired in a business combination, the acquisition date fair value) less 
accumulated amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner that reflects the pattern  
to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally using the amortisation periods set out below:

Annual rates in calculating amortisation Amortisation period

Goodwill  
Internally generated softwarea 
Other software
Core deposits intangibles
Brands 
Customer lists 
Licences and other

Not amortised 
12 months to 6 years 
12 months to 6 years
12 months to 25 years 
12 months to 25 years 
12 months to 25 years 
12 months to 25 years

Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.

Note
a Exceptions to the stated rate relate to useful lives of certain core banking platforms that are assessed individually and, if appropriate, amortised over longer periods ranging from  

10 to 15 years.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
326 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Non-current assets and other investments

24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued

Goodwill
£m

Internally 
generated 

software
£m

Other 
software

£m

Core 
deposit 

intangibles
£m

Brands
£m

Customer 
lists
£m

Licences 
and other

£m
Total

£m

2016
Cost 
As at 1 January 2016  5,603  4,112  542  146  86  1,665  471  12,625
Additions and disposals (77)  955  2  –  –  59  78  1,017
Exchange and other movementsa (679) (140) (340) (140) (86) (16) (4) (1,405)
As at 31 December 2016  4,847  4,927  204  6  –  1,708  545  12,237
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2016 (998) (1,634) (212) (75) (86) (1,081) (317) (4,403)
Disposals  77  46  1  –  –  14  12  150
Amortisation charge  – (476) (36)  –  – (129) (29) (670)
Impairment charge  – (72) (1)  –  –  – (1) (74)
Exchange and other movementsa (9)  272  105  69  86 (35) (2)  486
As at 31 December 2016 (930) (1,864) (143) (6)  – (1,231) (337) (4,511)
Net book value  3,917  3,063  61  –  –  477  208  7,726
2015
Cost 
As at 1 January 2015  6,329  3,240  482  186  112  1,721  447  12,517
Additions and disposals (515)  998  75  –  –  –  18  576
Exchange and other movements (211) (126) (15) (40) (26) (56)  6 (468)
As at 31 December 2015  5,603  4,112  542  146  86  1,665  471  12,625
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2015 (1,442) (1,257) (194) (88) (111) (962) (283) (4,337)
Disposals  518  128  2  –  –  –  3  651
Amortisation charge  – (421) (17) (6)  – (143) (30) (617)
Impairment charge (102) (101) (1) (1)  – (12)  – (217)
Exchange and other movements  28  17 (2)  20  25  36 (7)  117
As at 31 December 2015 (998) (1,634) (212) (75) (86) (1,081) (317) (4,403)
Net book value  4,605  2,478  330  71  –  584  154  8,222

Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments as follows:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Barclays UK 3,556 3,621
Barclays International 361 258
Africa Banking  – 703
Barclays Non-Core  – 23
Total net book value of goodwill 3,917 4,605

Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
Goodwill
Testing goodwill for impairment involves a significant amount of judgement. This includes the identification of independent CGUs and the  
allocation of goodwill to these units based on which units are expected to benefit from the acquisition. The allocation is reviewed following business 
reorganisations. Cash flow projections necessarily take into account changes in the market in which a business operates including the level of 
growth, competitive activity, and the impacts of regulatory change. Determining both the expected pre-tax cash flows and the risk-adjusted interest 
rate appropriate to the operating unit requires the exercise of judgement. The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which 
detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding long-term sustainable cash flows.

Other intangible assets
Determining the estimated useful lives of intangible assets (such as those arising from contractual relationships) requires an analysis of 
circumstances. The assessment of whether an asset is exhibiting indicators of impairment as well as the calculation of impairment, which requires 
the estimate of future cash flows and fair values less costs to sell, also requires the preparation of cash flow forecasts and fair values for assets that 
may not be regularly bought and sold.

Note
a Includes goodwill and intangibles relating to BAGL of £1.1bn which was reclassified to held for sale.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 327

24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued
Impairment testing of goodwill 
During 2016, the Group recognised an impairment charge of nil (2015: £102m). The impairment charge of £102m recognised in 2015 related to 
Non-Core and the withdrawal of the Bespoke product in Barclays International which was as a result of the recoverable amount of the goodwill 
relating to these businesses not being supported based on the value in use calculations.

Key assumptions
The key assumptions used for impairment testing are set out below for each significant goodwill balance. Other goodwill of £787m (2015: £1,475m) 
was allocated to multiple CGUs which are not considered individually significant.

Barclays UK 
Goodwill relating to Woolwich in Personal Banking and Business Banking was £3,130m (2015: £3,130m) of the total Barclays UK balance. The carrying 
value of the CGU has been determined by using net asset value. The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined using cash flow 
predictions based on financial budgets approved by management and covering a five-year period, with a terminal growth rate of 2.0% (2015: 2.4%) 
applied thereafter. The forecast cash flows have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 14.6% (2015: 11.4%). Based on these assumptions, the 
recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by £4,130m (2015: £14,097m). A one percentage point change in the discount 
rate or terminal growth rate would increase or decrease the recoverable amount by £988m (2015: £2,775m) and £615m (2015: £2,109m) 
respectively. A reduction in the forecast cash flows of 10% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount by £1,293m (2015: £2,789m). 

The headroom reflects the changes made to the CGU in Barclays UK as part of the business reorganisation in 2016. The reduction in headroom  
in 2016 reflects changes in discount rate and future cashflow projections. 

25 Operating leases

Accounting for operating leases
The Group applies IAS 17 Leases, for operating leases. An operating lease is a lease where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the leased 
assets remain with the lessor. Where the Group is the lessor, lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease unless 
another systematic basis is more appropriate. The Group holds the leased assets on balance sheet within property, plant and equipment. 

Where the Group is the lessee, rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term 
unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.

Operating lease receivables
The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as 
operating leases. The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases was £nil (2015: £1m).

Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. With such operating lease 
arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessor's balance sheet and the Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an expense over the 
lease term. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. 

Operating lease rentals of £560m (2015: £411m) have been included in administration and general expenses.

The future minimum lease payments by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

2016 2015
Property

£m
Equipment

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m

Not more than one year 364  – 376 1
Over one year but not more than five years 974 23 1,127 11
Over five years 1,520  – 1,874  – 
Total 2,858 23 3,377 12

Total future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases was £2m (2015: £1m).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
328 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

The notes included in this section focus on the Group's accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities. Provisions are recognised for present 
obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the 
obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Contingent liabilities reflect potential liabilities that are not recognised on the balance sheet. 

26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities

Accounting for insurance contracts
The Group applies IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts to its insurance contracts. An insurance contract is a contract that compensates a third party 
against a loss from non-financial risk. Some wealth management and other products, such as life assurance contracts, combine investment and 
insurance features; these are treated as insurance contracts when they pay benefits that are at least 5% more than they would pay if the insured 
event does not occur. 

Insurance liabilities include current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling, and administration costs in respect of claims. 
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities. Where a deficiency is highlighted 
by the tests, insurance liabilities are increased with any deficiency being recognised in the income statement.

Insurance premium revenue is recognised in the income statement in the period earned, net of reinsurance premiums payable, in net premiums 
from insurance contracts. Increases and decreases in insurance liabilities are recognised in the income statement in net claims and benefits on 
insurance contracts.

2016
£m

2015
£m

Accruals and deferred income 4,422 4,271
Other creditors 4,382 3,770
Obligations under finance leases (see Note 21) 15 –
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 52 2,569
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 8,871 10,610

Accruals and deferred income increased by 4% to £4.4bn mainly driven by accruals towards staff costs and administrative and general costs as at 
31 December 2016.

Insurance Liabilities relating to the Group's long-term business have decreased by £2.5bn primarily driven by Non-Core entities being classified as 
held for sale. Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Group's short-term business are £52m (2015: £115m). The maximum amounts payable 
under all of the Group's insurance products, ignoring the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the 
insurance policies, were £0.4bn (2015: £65bn) or £0.2bn (2015: £49bn) after reinsurance. The decrease in the maximum amounts payable is 
primarily due to BAGL which has been classified as held for sale in 2016.

The impact to the income statement and equity under a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to calculate the insurance liabilities 
would be £2m (2015: £1m).

27 Provisions

Accounting for provisions
The Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in accounting for non-financial liabilities.

Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of 
economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, which can be reliably estimated. Provision is made for the anticipated cost of 
restructuring, including redundancy costs when an obligation exists; for example, when the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring  
a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by announcing its main features or starting to implement  
the plan. Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition of an asset 
at an amount less than the amount advanced.



Onerous
 contracts

£m

Redundancy
 and

 restructuring
£m

Undrawn
contractually

committed
facilities and

guarantees
£m

Customer redress
Legal,

competition
and

regulatory
matters

£m

Sundry
provisions

£m
Total

£m

Payment
Protection
Insurance

£m

Other
customer

redress
£m

As at 1 January 2016 141 186 60 2,106 896 489 264 4,142
Additions 328 336 52 1,000 297 212 206 2,431
Amounts utilised (39) (274) (1) (1,127) (396) (254) (84) (2,175)
Unused amounts reversed (53) (60) (44) – (93) (27) (36) (313)
Exchange and other movements 8 18 – – 8 35 (20) 49
As at 31 December 2016 385 206 67 1,979 712 455 330 4,134

Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31 December 2016 were £2,045m (2015: £2,113m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 329

27 Provisions continued
Onerous contracts
Onerous contract provisions comprise an estimate of the costs involved with fulfilling the terms and conditions of contracts where the liability is 
higher than the amount of economic benefit to be received.

Redundancy and restructuring
These provisions comprise the estimated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists. Additions made during the 
year relate to formal restructuring plans and have either been utilised, or reversed, where total costs are now expected to be lower than the original 
provision amount.

Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees
Provisions are made if it is probable that a facility will be drawn and the resulting asset is expected to have a realisable value that is less than the 
amount advanced.

Customer redress
Customer redress provisions comprise the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers, clients and counterparties for losses or 
damages associated with inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities. Provisions for other customer redress include £264m 
(2015: £290m) in respect of historic pricing practices associated with Foreign Exchange transactions for certain customers between 2005 and 2012, 
and smaller provisions across the retail and corporate businesses which are likely to be utilised in the next 12 months.

Sundry provisions
This category includes provisions that do not fit into any of the other categories, such as fraud losses and dilapidation provisions.

Legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Group is engaged in various legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions. For further 
information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion of the associated uncertainties, please see Note 29 Legal, competition and regulatory 
matters.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Payment Protection Insurance Redress
As at 31 December 2016, Barclays had recognised cumulative provisions totalling £8.44bn (31 December 2015: £7.44bn) against the cost of Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) redress and associated processing costs with utilisation of £6.46bn (31 December 2015: £5.33bn), leaving a residual 
provision of £1.98bn (31 December 2015: £2.11bn).

Through to 31 December 2016, 1.8m (31 December 2015: 1.6m) customer initiated claimsa had been received and processed. The volume of claims 
received during 2016 decreased 8%b from 2015. This rate of decline was slower than previously recorded but in line with expectations.

The current provision reflects the estimated costs of PPI redress primarily relating to customer initiated complaints and ongoing remediation 
programmes. This also includes liabilities managed by third parties arising from portfolios previously sold where Barclays remains liable. 

As at 31 December 2016, the provision of £1.98bn represents Barclays' best estimate of expected PPI redress reflecting the revised complaints 
deadline proposed in Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) consultation paper 16/20 issued on 2 August 2016. However, it is possible the eventual 
outcome may differ from the current estimate. We will continue to review the adequacy of provision level in respect of the ongoing level of 
complaints. 

The PPI provision is calculated using a number of key assumptions which continue to involve significant management judgement and modelling:
■■ customer initiated claim volumes – claims received but not yet processed plus an estimate of future claims initiated by customers where the 

volume is anticipated to cease after half year 2019
■■ average claim redress – the expected average payment to customers for upheld claims based on the type and age of the policy/policies
■■ processing cost per claim – the cost to Barclays of assessing and processing each valid claim. 

These assumptions remain subjective, in particular due to the uncertainty associated with future claims levels, which include complaints driven  
by Claims Management Company (CMC) activity. 

The current provision represents Barclays' revised best estimate of all future expected costs of PPI redress based on the information available at 
year end.

The following table details actual data through to 31 December 2016, key forecast assumptions used in the provision calculation and a sensitivity 
analysis illustrating the impact on the provision if the future expected assumptions prove too high or too low.

Assumption

Cumulative
actual to
31.12.16

Future
expected

Sensitivity
analysis

increase/
decrease in

provision

Customer initiated claims received and processeda 1,840k 650k 50k = £100m
Average uphold rate per claimc 87% 83% 1% = £15m
Average redress per valid claimd £2,137 £1,950 £100 = £74m
Processing cost per claime £410 £350 50k = £17m

Notes
a Total claims received directly by Barclays to date, including those received via CMCs but excluding those for which no PPI policy exists and excluding responses to proactive mailing.
b Gross volumes received including no PPI.
c Average uphold rate per customer initiated claims received directly by Barclays and proactive mailings, excluding those for which no PPI policy exists.
d Average redress stated on a per policy basis for future customer initiated complaints received directly by Barclays and proactive mailings.
e Processing cost per claim on an upheld complaints basis, includes direct staff costs and associated overheads.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
330 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

28 Contingent liabilities and commitments

Accounting for contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where 
the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet but 
are disclosed unless the outflow of economic resources is remote.

The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments which are not recorded on balance sheet:

Contingent liabilities and commitments excluding BAGL
2016

£m
2015

£m

Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,303 16,065
Performance guarantees, acceptances and endorsements 4,636 4,556
Contingent liabilities 19,939 20,621
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 1,005 845
Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 24 93
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 302,657 281,369

Contingent liabilities and commitments exclude BAGL balances of £17.5bn for 2016 now disclosed as held for sale.

The Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the FSCS) is the UK's government-backed compensation scheme for customers of authorised 
institutions that are unable to pay claims. It provides compensation to depositors in the event that UK licensed deposit-taking institutions are unable 
to meet their claims. The FSCS raises levies on UK licensed deposit-taking institutions to meet such claims based on their share of UK deposits on 
31 December of the specified years preceding the scheme year (which runs from 1 April to 31 March).

Compensation has previously been paid out by the FSCS, funded by loan facilities totalling approximately £18bn provided by HM Treasury to the 
FSCS in support of FSCS's obligations to the depositors of banks declared in default. The interest rate chargeable on the loan and levied to the 
industry is subject to a floor equal to the higher of HM Treasury's own cost of borrowing (typically 2024 UK Gilt yield), and GBP LIBOR with 12-month 
maturity plus 100 basis points. The FSCS recovered £1bn capital shortfall in respect of the legacy facility from industry in three instalments across 
2013, 2014 and 2015. A separate shortfall in respect of Dunfermline Building Society was levied on the industry in 2014, 2015 and fully recovered in 
2016. The FSCS liability for the interest levy for 2016/17 has been recognised in 2016. Barclays has included an accrual of £55m in other liabilities as 
at 31 December 2016 (2015: £56m) in respect of the Barclays portion of the Interest Levy.

Further details on contingent liabilities relating to legal, competition and regulatory matters can be found in Note 29.

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group face legal, competition and regulatory challenges, many of which are beyond our control. The extent 
of the impact on Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group of these matters cannot always be predicted but may materially impact our 
operations, financial results, condition and prospects. Matters arising from a set of similar circumstances can give rise to either a contingent liability 
or a provision, or both, depending on the relevant facts and circumstances. The Group has not disclosed an estimate of the potential financial effect 
on the Group of contingent liabilities where it is not currently practicable to do so.

Investigations into certain advisory services agreements and civil action
The UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO), the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the US Department of Justice (DOJ) and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) have been conducting investigations into certain advisory services agreements entered into by Barclays Bank PLC.

Background Information
Barclays Bank PLC entered into two advisory services agreements with Qatar Holding LLC (Qatar Holding) in June and October 2008. The FCA 
subsequently commenced an investigation into whether these agreements may have related to Barclays PLC's capital raisings in June and November 
2008 (the Capital Raisings). The existence of the June 2008 advisory services agreement was disclosed, but the entry into the advisory services 
agreement in October 2008 and the fees payable under both agreements, which amounted to a total of £322m payable over a period of five years, 
were not disclosed in the announcements or public documents relating to the Capital Raisings.

In September 2013, the FCA issued warning notices (the Notices) finding that while, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believed at the time of the 
execution of the agreements that there should be at least some unspecified and undetermined value to be derived from them, the primary purpose 
of the agreements was not to obtain advisory services but to make additional payments, which would not be disclosed, for the Qatari participation  
in the Capital Raisings. The Notices concluded that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC were in breach of certain disclosure-related listing rules and 
Barclays PLC was also in breach of Listing Principle 3 (the requirement to act with integrity towards holders and potential holders of the Company's 
shares). In this regard, the FCA considers that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC acted recklessly. The financial penalty provided in the Notices 
against the Group is £50m. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC continue to contest the findings.

The SFO has also been conducting an investigation into the agreements, and the Group continues to respond to requests for further information 
in that investigation, which is at an advanced stage. The FCA action has been stayed pending the resolution of the SFO investigation.

In addition, the DOJ and the SEC have been conducting investigations relating to the agreements.

In January 2016, PCP Capital Partners LLP and PCP International Finance Limited (PCP) served a claim on Barclays Bank PLC seeking damages of 
£721.4m plus interest and costs for fraudulent misrepresentation and deceit, arising from alleged statements made by Barclays Bank PLC to PCP 
in relation to the terms on which securities were to be issued to investors, including PCP, in the November 2008 capital raising. Barclays Bank PLC 
is defending the claim.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. PCP has made a claim against Barclays Bank PLC totalling 
£721.4m plus interest and costs. This amount does not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLC's potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made 
against it.

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 331

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Investigations into certain business relationships
The DOJ and SEC are undertaking an investigation into whether the Group's relationships with third parties who assist Barclays PLC to win or 
retain business are compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Certain regulators in other jurisdictions have also been briefed on the 
investigations. Separately, the Group is cooperating with the DOJ and SEC in relation to an investigation into certain of its hiring practices in Asia 
and elsewhere and is keeping certain regulators in other jurisdictions informed.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Alternative Trading Systems and High-Frequency Trading 
The SEC, the New York State Attorney General (NYAG) and regulators in certain other jurisdictions have been investigating a range of issues 
associated with alternative trading systems (ATSs), including dark pools, and the activities of high-frequency traders.

Background Information
In June 2014, the NYAG filed a complaint (NYAG Complaint) against Barclays PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. (BCI) in the Supreme Court of the State 
of New York alleging, amongst other things, that Barclays PLC and BCI engaged in fraud and deceptive practices in connection with LX, the Group's 
SEC-registered ATS. In February 2016, Barclays reached separate settlement agreements with each of the SEC and the NYAG to resolve those 
agencies' claims against Barclays PLC and BCI relating to the operation of LX for $35m each.

Barclays PLC and BCI have been named in a purported class action by an institutional investor client under California law based on allegations similar 
to those in the NYAG Complaint. In October 2016, the federal court in California granted the motion of Barclays PLC and BCI to dismiss the entire 
complaint and plaintiffs have appealed the court's decision.

Following the filing of the NYAG Complaint, Barclays PLC and BCI were also named in a shareholder securities class action along with certain of its 
former CEOs, and its current and a former CFO, as well as an employee in Equities Electronic Trading (Shareholder Class Action). The plaintiffs claim 
that investors suffered damages when their investments in Barclays American Depository Receipts declined in value as a result of the allegations in 
the NYAG Complaint. Barclays PLC and BCI filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the court granted in part and denied in part. In February 
2016, the court certified the action as a class action, and Barclays has appealed that certification.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
The class actions seek unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial 
impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in 
any particular period.

FERC 
The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and certain of its former traders in the 
US District Court in California seeking to collect a $435m civil penalty and the disgorgement of $34.9m of profits, plus interest, in connection with 
allegations that Barclays Bank PLC manipulated the electricity markets in and around California. A civil class action complaint was also filed in the 
US District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY) against Barclays Bank PLC asserting antitrust claims based on allegations that mirror 
those raised in the civil suit filed by FERC.

Background Information
In October 2012, FERC issued an Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalties (Order and Notice) against Barclays Bank PLC and four of 
its former traders in relation to their power trading in the western US. In the Order and Notice, FERC asserted that Barclays Bank PLC and its former 
traders violated FERC's Anti-Manipulation Rule by manipulating the electricity markets in and around California from November 2006 to December 
2008, and proposed civil penalties and profit disgorgement to be paid by Barclays Bank PLC.

In October 2013, FERC filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and its former traders in the US District Court in California seeking to collect the 
$435m civil penalty and disgorgement of $34.9m of profits, plus interest.

In June 2015, a civil class action complaint was filed in the US District Court for the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC by Merced Irrigation District, 
a California utility company, asserting antitrust allegations in connection with Barclays Bank PLC's purported manipulation of the electricity markets 
in and around California. The factual allegations mirror those raised in the civil action filed by FERC against Barclays Bank PLC currently pending in 
the US District Court in California.

In October 2015, the US District Court in California ordered that it would bifurcate its assessment of liabilities and penalties from its assessment of 
disgorgement. FERC has filed and Barclays Bank PLC is opposing a brief seeking summary affirmance of the penalty assessment. The court has 
indicated that it will either affirm the penalty assessment or require further evidence to determine this issue. Oral argument on the motion to affirm 
the penalty assessment occurred in February 2017.

In December 2015, Barclays Bank PLC filed a motion to dismiss the civil class action for failure to state a claim, which the SDNY in February 2016 
granted in part and denied in part.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
FERC has made claims against Barclays Bank PLC totalling $469.9m, plus interest, for civil penalties and profit disgorgement. The civil class action 
complaint refers to damages of $139.3m. These amounts do not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLC's potential financial exposure if a ruling were 
to be made against it in either action.

Investigations into LIBOR and other Benchmarks
Regulators and law enforcement agencies, including certain competition authorities, from a number of governments have been conducting 
investigations relating to Barclays Bank PLC's involvement in manipulating certain financial benchmarks, such as LIBOR and EURIBOR. Barclays Bank 
PLC, Barclays PLC and BCI have reached settlements with the relevant law enforcement agency or regulator in certain of the investigations, but 
others, including the investigations by the SFO and the prosecutors' office in Trani, Italy remain pending.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
332 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Background Information
In June 2012, Barclays Bank PLC announced that it had reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (as predecessor to the FCA), 
the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the DOJ Fraud Section (DOJ-FS) in relation to their investigations concerning certain 
benchmark interest rate submissions, and Barclays Bank PLC agreed to pay total penalties of £290m. The settlement with the DOJ-FS was made by 
entry into a Non-Prosecution Agreement (NPA) which has now expired. In addition, Barclays Bank PLC was granted conditional leniency from the DOJ 
Antitrust Division (DOJ-AD) in connection with potential US antitrust law violations with respect to financial instruments that reference EURIBOR. 
The DOJ granted final leniency to Barclays Bank PLC in May 2016.

Settlements with the US State Attorneys General and the Swiss Competition Commission
Following the settlements announced in June 2012, a group of US State Attorneys General (SAGs) commenced its own investigations into LIBOR, 
EURIBOR and the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate. In August 2016, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and 44 SAGs entered into a settlement agreement resolving 
the claims of those SAGs (and those of any other SAG who joined the settlement within 60 days) with respect to the matters subject to the 
investigations. Barclays agreed among other things to make payments totalling $100m to the SAGs in connection with the settlement.

In December 2016, a settlement in the sum of CHF29.8m was reached with the Swiss Competition Commission relating to its investigation into 
EURIBOR-related conduct.

Investigation by the SFO
In July 2012, the SFO announced that it had decided to investigate the LIBOR matter, in respect of which Barclays Bank PLC has received and 
continues to respond to requests for information. The SFO's investigation, including in respect of Barclays Bank PLC, continues.

For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see ‘LIBOR and other Benchmarks Civil Actions'.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on 
the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

LIBOR and other Benchmark Civil Actions 
Following the settlements of the investigations referred to above in ‘Investigations into LIBOR and other Benchmarks', a number of individuals and 
corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group in relation to LIBOR and/or other benchmarks. While 
several of such cases have been dismissed and certain have settled subject to approval from the court (and in the case of class actions, the right of 
class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims), other actions remain pending and their ultimate impact is unclear.

Background Information
A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in 
relation to manipulation of LIBOR and/or other benchmark rates.

USD LIBOR Cases in MDL Court
The majority of the USD LIBOR cases, which have been filed in various US jurisdictions, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes before a single 
judge in the SDNY (MDL Court).

The complaints are substantially similar and allege, amongst other things, that Barclays Bank PLC and the other banks individually and collectively 
violated provisions of the US Sherman Antitrust Act (Antitrust Act), the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), the US Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations Act (RICO) and various state laws by manipulating USD LIBOR rates.

The lawsuits seek unspecified damages with the exception of five lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs are seeking a combined total in excess of $1.25bn 
in actual damages against all defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, plus punitive damages. Some of the lawsuits also seek trebling of damages 
under the Antitrust Act and RICO.

The proposed class actions purported to be brought on behalf of (amongst others) plaintiffs that (i) engaged in USD LIBOR-linked over-the-counter 
transactions (OTC Class); (ii) purchased USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments on an exchange (Exchange-Based Class); (iii) purchased USD 
LIBOR-linked debt securities (Debt Securities Class); (iv) purchased adjustable-rate mortgages linked to USD LIBOR (Homeowner Class); or (v) 
issued loans linked to USD LIBOR (Lender Class).

In August 2012 the MDL Court stayed all newly filed proposed class actions and individual actions (Stayed Actions). In March 2013, August 2013 and 
June 2014, the MDL Court issued a series of decisions effectively dismissing the majority of claims against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank 
defendants in the three lead proposed class actions (Lead Class Actions) and three lead individual actions (Lead Individual Actions).

In July 2014, the MDL Court allowed the Stayed Actions to proceed and a number of plaintiffs filed amended complaints. The MDL Court 
subsequently dismissed a number of Lead Individual Action claims and all Homeowner Class and Lender Class claims. In May 2016, the appeal court 
reversed the MDL Court's holding that plaintiffs in the Lead Class Actions, including the Debt Securities Class, and Lead Individual Actions had not 
suffered an injury under the Antitrust Act, and remanded the antitrust claims for the MDL Court's further consideration of those claims and related 
issues. Following further consideration, the MDL Court dismissed the majority of antitrust claims against foreign defendants, including Barclays Bank 
PLC, for lack of personal jurisdiction. Certain plaintiffs have sought leave to move the MDL Court to reconsider its decision, and certain defendants, 
including Barclays Bank PLC, have sought leave to move to dismiss certain of the remaining antitrust claims.

In December 2014, the MDL Court granted preliminary approval for the settlement of the Exchange-Based Class claims for $20m. Final approval of 
the settlement is awaiting plaintiff 's submission of a plan for allocation of the settlement proceeds acceptable to the MDL Court and will be subject 
to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

In November 2015, the OTC Class claims were settled for $120m. The settlement was preliminarily approved by the MDL court in December 2016, 
but remains subject to final court approval and the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

In November 2016, a settlement was agreed with respect to the Debt Securities Class claims. As the plaintiffs have not yet sought court approval 
of the settlement, the amount (which Barclays does not consider to be material to the Group) has not yet been publicly disclosed.

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 333

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
EURIBOR Case in the SDNY
In February 2013, a EURIBOR-related class action was filed against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other EURIBOR panel banks in the SDNY. 
The plaintiffs asserted antitrust, CEA, RICO, and unjust enrichment claims relating to EURIBOR manipulation. In October 2015, the class action was 
settled for $94m subject to court approval. The settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court but remains subject to final approval and 
the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

Additional USD LIBOR Case in the SDNY
An additional individual action was commenced in February 2013 in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank defendants. The 
plaintiff alleged that the panel bank defendants conspired to increase USD LIBOR, which caused the value of bonds pledged as collateral for a loan to 
decrease, ultimately resulting in the sale of the bonds at a low point in the market. In April 2015, the court dismissed the action. The plaintiff 's motion 
to file a further amended complaint is pending.

Sterling LIBOR Case in SDNY
In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff 
involved in exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives that were linked to Sterling LIBOR. The complaint alleges, among other things, that 
Barclays Bank PLC and other panel banks manipulated the Sterling LIBOR rate between 2005 and 2010 and, in so doing, committed CEA, Antitrust 
Act, and RICO violations. In early 2016, this class action was consolidated with an additional putative class action making similar allegations against 
Barclays Bank PLC and BCI and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss.

Complaint in the US District Court for the Central District of California
In July 2012, a putative class action complaint in the US District Court for the Central District of California was amended to include allegations related 
to USD LIBOR and names Barclays Bank PLC as a defendant. The amended complaint was filed on behalf of a putative class that includes holders of 
adjustable rate mortgages linked to USD LIBOR. In January 2015, the court granted Barclays Bank PLC's motion for summary judgement and 
dismissed all of the remaining claims against Barclays Bank PLC. The dismissal was affirmed on appeal in December 2016.

Japanese Yen LIBOR Cases in SDNY
A putative class action was commenced in April 2012 in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Japanese Yen LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff 
involved in exchange-traded derivatives. The complaint also names members of the Japanese Bankers Association's Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered 
Rate (Euroyen TIBOR) panel, of which Barclays Bank PLC is not a member. The complaint alleges, amongst other things, manipulation of the Euroyen 
TIBOR and Yen LIBOR rates and breaches of the CEA and Antitrust Act between 2006 and 2010. In March 2014, the court dismissed the plaintiff 's 
antitrust claims in full, but sustained the plaintiff 's CEA claims, which are pending. Plaintiff has amended the pleadings to extend the putative class 
period, and defendants have filed a partial motion to dismiss claims arising during the extended period.

In July 2015, a second putative class action concerning Yen LIBOR was filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI. 
The complaint alleges breaches of the Antitrust Act and RICO between 2006 and 2010 based on factual allegations that are substantially similar 
to those in the April 2012 class action. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss.

SIBOR/SOR Case in the SDNY
A putative class action was commenced in July 2016 in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, and other defendants, alleging 
manipulation of the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate (SIBOR) and Singapore Swap Offer Rate (SOR). The complaint alleges, amongst other things, 
manipulation of the SIBOR and SOR rates and breaches of the Antitrust Act and RICO between 2007 and 2011. Defendants filed motions to dismiss.

Non-US Benchmarks Cases
In addition to US actions, legal proceedings have been brought or threatened against the Group in connection with alleged manipulation of LIBOR 
and EURIBOR in a number of jurisdictions. The number of such proceedings in non-US jurisdictions, the benchmarks to which they relate, and the 
jurisdictions in which they may be brought have increased over time.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described 
on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Foreign Exchange Investigations 
Various regulatory and enforcement authorities have been investigating a range of issues associated with Foreign Exchange sales and trading, 
including electronic trading. Certain of these investigations involve multiple market participants in various countries. The Group has reached 
settlements with the CFTC, the DOJ, the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System (Federal Reserve) and the FCA (together, the 2015 Resolving Authorities) and the Administrative Council for Economic Defence in Brazil with 
respect to certain of these investigations as further described below. The South African Competition Commission (SACC) has initiated proceedings 
before the South African Competition Tribunal (Tribunal). Investigations by the European Commission (Commission) and the DOJ, amongst others, 
remain pending.

Background Information
In 2015, the Group reached settlements with the 2015 Resolving Authorities in relation to investigations into certain sales and trading practices  
in the Foreign Exchange market. In connection with these settlements, the Group agreed to pay total penalties of approximately $2.38bn, and to 
undertake certain remedial actions.

Under the plea agreement with the DOJ, in addition to a criminal fine, Barclays PLC agreed to a term of probation of three years during which  
Barclays PLC must, amongst other things, (i) commit no crime whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) implement and continue 
to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and (iii) strengthen its 
compliance and internal controls as required by relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies. In January 2017, the US District Court for the District 
of Connecticut accepted the plea agreement and in accordance with the agreement sentenced Barclays PLC to pay $650m as a fine and $60m for 
violating the NPA (which amounts are part of the $2.38bn referred to above) and to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing 
order. The Group also continues to provide relevant information to certain of the 2015 Resolving Authorities.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
334 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
The full text of the DOJ plea agreement, the orders of the CFTC, NYDFS and Federal Reserve, and the Final Notice issued by the FCA related to the 
settlements referred to above are publicly available on the 2015 Resolving Authorities' respective websites.

In December 2016 the Group reached a settlement with the Administrative Council for Economic Defence in Brazil regarding its investigation into 
certain Foreign Exchange trading conduct. The Group agreed to a penalty of approximately £4.9m as part of the settlement agreement.

An investigation by the FCA into historic pricing practices by Barclays Bank PLC associated with certain Foreign Exchange transactions was 
discontinued in December 2016. Barclays Bank PLC has initiated a customer remediation program and is keeping the FCA informed on its progress.

The DOJ is also conducting an investigation into conduct relating to certain trading activities in connection with certain transactions during 2011 
and 2012. Barclays is providing information to the DOJ and other relevant authorities reviewing this conduct.

In February 2017 the SACC referred Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Africa Group Limited, among other banks, 
to the Tribunal to be prosecuted for breaches of South African antitrust law related to Foreign Exchange trading of South African Rand. The SACC found 
from its investigation that, from at least 2007, the banks had engaged in various forms of collusive behaviour.  Barclays was the first to bring the conduct 
to the attention of the SACC under its leniency programme and has cooperated with, and will continue to cooperate with, the SACC in relation to this 
matter.  The SACC is therefore not seeking an order from the Tribunal to impose any fine on Barclays Bank PLC, BCI or Absa Bank Limited.

For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see ‘Civil Actions in respect of Foreign Exchange' below.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
The provision for the customer remediation program relating to historic pricing practices by Barclays Bank PLC associated with certain Foreign 
Exchange transactions referred to above was £264m as of 31 December 2016 (see Provisions Note 27). Aside from the settlements discussed above 
it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might 
have on the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Civil Actions in respect of Foreign Exchange 
Background Information
A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in 
relation to Foreign Exchange or may do so in future. Certain of these cases have been dismissed or have been settled subject to approval from the 
relevant court (and in the case of class actions, the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims).

Consolidated FX Action
Beginning in November 2013, a number of civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of 
Foreign Exchange markets under the Antitrust Act and New York state law and naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays 
Bank PLC. In February 2014, the SDNY combined all then-pending actions alleging a class of US persons in a single consolidated action (Consolidated 
FX Action). In September 2015, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI settled the Consolidated FX Action for $384m. The settlement itself is subject to final 
court approval and the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

ERISA FX Action
Since February 2015, several other civil actions have been filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs purporting to allege different 
legal theories of injury (other than those alleged in the Consolidated FX Action) related to alleged manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates and 
naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI. One such consolidated action asserts claims 
under the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) statute (ERISA Claims) and includes allegations of conduct that are duplicative of 
allegations in the other cases, as well as additional allegations about ERISA plans. The Court has ruled that the ERISA allegations concerning collusive 
manipulation of FX rates are covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action, but has not ruled on whether allegations 
characterised by the ERISA plaintiffs as non-collusive manipulation of FX rates are likewise covered by the agreement. In September 2016, the Court 
dismissed all claims (based on both alleged collusive and non-collusive conduct) in the ERISA Claims against Barclays and all other defendants as a 
matter of law. The ERISA plaintiffs have appealed this decision.

Retail Basis Action
Another action was filed in the Northern District of California (and subsequently transferred to the SDNY) against several international banks, 
including Barclays PLC and BCI, on behalf of a putative class of individuals that exchanged currencies on a retail basis at bank branches (Retail Basis 
Claims). The Court has ruled that the Retail Basis Claims are not covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action. Barclays has 
moved to dismiss the Retail Basis Claims as a matter of law.

Last Look Actions 
In addition, in November 2015 and December 2015, two additional civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs 
alleging injuries based on Barclays' purported improper rejection of customer trades through Barclays Last Look system. In February 2016, Barclays 
Bank PLC and BCI settled one of the actions for $50m on a class-wide basis. (The other action was voluntarily dismissed.) Class members have the 
right to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

ETF FX Action
In September 2016, another action was filed in the SDNY under federal, New York and California law on behalf of proposed classes of stockholders 
of Exchange Traded Funds and others who supposedly were indirect investors in FX Instruments. Barclays will move to dismiss this action as a matter 
of law or, alternatively, to enjoin the claims as covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action.

Canadian FX Action
Similar civil actions to the Consolidated FX Action have been filed in Canadian courts on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs containing similar 
factual allegations of manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates as in the US actions and of damages resulting from such manipulation in violation of 
Canadian law.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon 
the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period is currently uncertain.

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 335

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Civil Actions in respect of ISDAFIX
Beginning in September 2014, a number of ISDAFIX related civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, alleging 
that Barclays Bank PLC, a number of other banks and one broker, violated the Antitrust Act and several state laws by engaging in a conspiracy to 
manipulate the USD ISDAFIX. Those actions, which were consolidated in February 2015, arose in connection with certain regulatory and law 
enforcement agencies' investigations into historical practices with respect to ISDAFIX.

In April 2016, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI entered into a settlement agreement with plaintiffs to resolve the consolidated action for $30m, fully 
resolving all ISDAFIX-related claims that were or could have been brought by the class. In May 2016, the court preliminarily approved the settlement, 
which remains subject to final approval and to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described 
on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Precious Metals Investigation
Barclays Bank PLC has been providing information to the DOJ, the CFTC and other authorities in connection with investigations into precious metals 
and precious metals-based financial instruments.

For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see ‘Civil Actions in respect of the Gold Fix' below.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Civil Actions in respect of the Gold Fix 
Since March 2014, a number of civil complaints have been filed in US Federal Courts, each on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, alleging that 
Barclays Bank PLC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Ltd. manipulated the prices of gold and gold derivative contracts in 
violation of the CEA, the Antitrust Act, and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. All of the complaints have been transferred to the SDNY 
and consolidated for pretrial purposes.

A similar civil action has been filed in Canadian courts on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs containing similar factual allegations of the 
manipulation of the prices of gold in violation of Canadian law.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

US Residential and Commercial Mortgage-related Activity and Litigation 
The Group's activities within the US residential mortgage sector during the period from 2005 through 2008 included:

■■ sponsoring and underwriting of approximately $39bn of private-label securitisations;
■■ economic underwriting exposure of approximately $34bn for other private-label securitisations;
■■ sales of approximately $0.2bn of loans to government sponsored enterprises (GSEs);
■■ sales of approximately $3bn of loans to others; and
■■ sales of approximately $19.4bn of loans (net of approximately $500m of loans sold during this period and subsequently repurchased) that were 

originated and sold to third parties by mortgage originator affiliates of an entity that the Group acquired in 2007 (Acquired Subsidiary).

Throughout this time period affiliates of the Group engaged in secondary market trading of US residential mortgaged-backed securities (RMBS) 
and US commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and such trading activity continues today.

In connection with its loan sales and certain private-label securitisations, on 31 December 2016, the Group had unresolved repurchase requests 
relating to loans with a principal balance of approximately $2.2bn at the time they were sold, and civil actions have been commenced by various 
parties alleging that the Group must repurchase a substantial number of such loans.

In addition, the Group is party to a lawsuit filed by a purchaser of RMBS asserting statutory and/or common law claims. The current outstanding 
face amount of RMBS related to these pending claims against the Group as of 31 December 2016 was approximately $0.1bn.

Regulatory and governmental authorities, including amongst others, the DOJ, SEC, Special Inspector General for the US Troubled Asset Relief 
Program (SIGTARP), the US Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut and the US Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York (EDNY) 
have been conducting wide-ranging investigations into market practices involving mortgage-backed securities, and the Group is cooperating with 
those investigations. In December 2016, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays in the US District Court for the EDNY containing a number of 
allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold between 2005 and 2007. The complaint seeks, amongst other 
relief, unspecified monetary penalties. Barclays is defending the complaint.

RMBS Repurchase Requests
Background Information
The Group was the sole provider of various loan-level representations and warranties (R&Ws) with respect to:

■■ approximately $5bn of Group sponsored securitisations;
■■ approximately $0.2bn of sales of loans to GSEs; and
■■ approximately $3bn of loans sold to others.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
336 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary provided R&Ws on all of the $19.4bn of loans it sold to third parties.

R&Ws on the remaining Group sponsored securitisations were primarily provided by third-party originators directly to the securitisation trusts with 
a Group subsidiary, such as the depositor for the securitisation, providing more limited R&Ws. There are no stated expiration provisions applicable 
to most R&Ws made by the Group, the Acquired Subsidiary or these third parties.

Under certain circumstances, the Group and/or the Acquired Subsidiary may be required to repurchase the related loans or make other payments 
related to such loans if the R&Ws are breached.

The unresolved repurchase requests received on or before 31 December 2016 associated with all R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired 
Subsidiary on loans sold to GSEs and others and private-label activities had an original unpaid principal balance of approximately $2.2bn at the time 
of such sale.

The unresolved repurchase requests discussed above relate to civil actions that have been commenced by the trustees for certain RMBS 
securitisations in which the trustees allege that the Group and/or the Acquired Subsidiary must repurchase loans that violated the operative R&Ws. 
Such trustees and other parties making repurchase requests have also alleged that the operative R&Ws may have been violated with respect to a 
greater (but unspecified) amount of loans than the amount of loans previously stated in specific repurchase requests made by such trustees. 
Cumulative realised losses reported at 31 December 2016 on loans covered by R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired Subsidiary are 
approximately $1.3bn. All of the litigation involving repurchase requests remain at early stages.

In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary is subject to a more advanced civil action seeking, among other things, indemnification for losses allegedly 
suffered by a loan purchaser as a result of alleged breaches of R&Ws provided by the Acquired Subsidiary in connection with loan sales to the 
purchaser during the period 1997 to 2007. This litigation is ongoing.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

RMBS Securities Claims
Background Information
As a result of some of the RMBS activities described above, the Group has been party to a number of lawsuits filed by purchasers of RMBS 
sponsored and/or underwritten by the Group between 2005 and 2008. As a general matter, these lawsuits alleged, among other things, that the 
RMBS offering materials allegedly relied on by such purchasers contained materially false and misleading statements and/or omissions and generally 
demanded rescission and recovery of the consideration paid for the RMBS and recovery of monetary losses arising out of their ownership. The Group 
has resolved a number of these claims, and only one action currently remains pending.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Approximately $0.1bn of the original face amount of RMBS related to the remaining pending action was outstanding as at 31 December 2016. There 
were virtually no cumulative realised losses reported on these RMBS as at 31 December 2016. The Group does not expect that, if it were to lose the 
remaining pending action, any such loss to be material.

Mortgage-related actions 
Numerous governmental authorities have been investigating various aspects of the mortgage-related business. The Group has responded to 
requests from the DOJ relating to the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (RMBS Working Group), which was 
formed to investigate pre-financial crisis mortgage-related misconduct. In connection with several of the investigations by members of the RMBS 
Working Group, a number of financial institutions have entered into settlements involving substantial monetary payments resolving claims related to 
the underwriting, securitisation and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities. In December 2016, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays 
in the US District Court in the EDNY containing a number of allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold 
between 2005 and 2007. The complaint seeks, amongst other relief, unspecified monetary penalties. Barclays is defending the complaint.

The Group has also received requests for information and subpoenas from the SEC, the US Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut and 
SIGTARP related to trading practices in the secondary market for both RMBS and CMBS. The investigation by the SEC is at an advanced stage.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. The cost of resolving these actions could individually  
or in aggregate prove to be substantial.

American Depositary Shares 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and various former members of Barclays PLC's Board of Directors have been named as defendants in a securities 
class action consolidated in the SDNY alleging misstatements and omissions in offering documents for certain American Depositary Shares issued  
by Barclays Bank PLC in April 2008 with an original face amount of approximately $2.5 billion (the April 2008 Offering). 

Background Information
The plaintiffs have asserted claims under the Securities Act of 1933, alleging that the offering documents for the April 2008 Offering contained 
misstatements and omissions concerning (amongst other things) Barclays Bank PLC's portfolio of mortgage-related (including US subprime-related) 
securities, Barclays Bank PLC's exposure to mortgage and credit market risk, and Barclays Bank PLC's financial condition. The plaintiffs have not specifically 
alleged the amount of their damages. In June 2016, the SDNY certified the action as a class action. Barclays has moved for summary judgement.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 337

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
BDC Finance L.L.C.
BDC Finance L.L.C. (BDC) filed a complaint against Barclays Bank PLC in the NY Supreme Court alleging breach of contract in connection with a 
portfolio of total return swaps governed by an ISDA Master Agreement (collectively, the Agreement). Parties related to BDC have also sued Barclays 
Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court in connection with Barclays Bank PLC's conduct relating to the Agreement.

Background Information
In October 2008, BDC filed a complaint in the NY Supreme Court alleging that Barclays Bank PLC breached the Agreement when it failed to transfer 
approximately $40m of alleged excess collateral in response to BDC's October 2008 demand (Demand). 

BDC asserts that under the Agreement Barclays Bank PLC was not entitled to dispute the Demand before transferring the alleged excess collateral 
and that even if the Agreement entitled Barclays Bank PLC to dispute the Demand before making the transfer, Barclays Bank PLC failed to dispute the 
Demand. BDC demands damages totalling $298m plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. Proceedings are currently pending 
and a trial on liability issues is currently scheduled to occur in 2017. 

In September 2011, BDC's investment advisor, BDCM Fund Adviser, L.L.C. and its parent company, Black Diamond Capital Holdings, L.L.C. also sued 
Barclays Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court for unspecified damages allegedly resulting from Barclays Bank PLC's conduct relating to the 
Agreement, asserting claims for violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act and tortious interference with business and prospective 
business relations. The parties agreed to stay this case.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
BDC has made claims against the Group totalling $298m plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. This amount does not 
necessarily reflect the Group's potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made against it.

Civil Actions in respect of the US Anti-Terrorism Act
In April 2015, an amended civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the EDNY by a group of approximately 250 plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays 
Bank PLC and a number of other banks engaged in a conspiracy and violated the US Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA) by facilitating US Dollar denominated 
transactions for the Government of Iran and various Iranian banks, which in turn funded Hezbollah and other attacks that injured or killed the plaintiffs' 
family members. Plaintiffs seek to recover for pain, suffering and mental anguish pursuant to the provisions of the ATA, which allows for the tripling of 
any proven damages and attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint in July 2016, which, among other things, added various plaintiffs, 
bringing the total number of plaintiffs to approximately 350. In November 2016, defendants' filed a motion to dismiss.

In November 2016, a separate civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the Southern District of Illinois by a group of approximately 90 
plaintiffs, alleging claims under the ATA against Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other banks. The allegations against Barclays Bank PLC are 
substantially similar to those in the second amended complaint in the US Federal Court in the EDNY action. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint 
in January 2017, which, among other things, added various plaintiffs, bringing the total number of plaintiffs to approximately 200.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Interest Rate Swap US Civil Action
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, together with other financial institutions that act as market makers for interest rate swaps (IRS), Trade 
Web, and ICAP, are named as defendants in several antitrust class actions consolidated in the SDNY. The complaints allege defendants conspired 
to prevent the development of exchanges for IRS and demand unspecified money damages, treble damages and legal fees. Plaintiffs include certain 
swap execution facilities, as well as buy-side investors. The buy-side investors claim to represent a class that transacted in fixed-for-floating IRS 
with defendants in the US from 1 January 2008 to the present, including, for example, US retirement and pension funds, municipalities, university 
endowments, corporations, insurance companies and investment funds. Defendants filed motion to dismiss.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect it have upon the 
Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Treasury Auction Securities Civil Actions
Numerous putative class action complaints have been filed in US Federal Courts against BCI and other financial institutions that have served as 
primary dealers in US Treasury securities. The complaints have been consolidated in the US Federal Court in New York. The complaints generally 
allege that defendants conspired to manipulate the US Treasury securities market in violation of US federal antitrust laws, the CEA and state 
common law. Some complaints also allege that defendants engaged in illegal “spoofing” of the US Treasury market.

Certain governmental authorities have been conducting investigations into activities relating to the trading of government securities in various 
markets and Barclays has been providing information to various authorities on an ongoing basis.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigation into Americas Wealth & Investment Management Advisory Business
The SEC is investigating certain practices in Barclays' former Wealth Americas investment advisory business relating to certain due diligence failures, 
fee and billing practices and mutual fund fee waivers and related disclosures. Barclays has been cooperating with the investigation, which is at an 
advanced stage.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
338 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might 
have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Retail Structured Products Investigation 
The Group is cooperating with an enforcement investigation commenced by the FCA in connection with structured products provided to UK 
customers from November 2009 to the present.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigation into suspected money laundering related to foreign exchange transactions in South African operation 
Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Africa Group Limited, has identified potentially fraudulent activity by certain of its customers using 
advance payments for imports in 2014 and 2015 to effect foreign exchange transfers from South Africa to beneficiary accounts located in East Asia, 
UK, Europe and the US. As a result, the Group has been conducting a review of relevant activity, processes, systems and controls. The Group is 
keeping relevant authorities informed as to the status of this matter and is providing information to these authorities as part of its ongoing 
cooperation.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have 
upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Portuguese Competition Authority Investigation
The Portuguese Competition Authority is investigating whether competition law was infringed by the exchange of information about retail credit 
products amongst 15 banks in Portugal, including the Group, over a period of 11 years with particular reference to mortgages, consumer lending 
and lending to small and medium enterprises. The Group is cooperating with the investigation.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described or what effect it might have upon operating 
results, cash flows or the Group's financial position in any particular period.

Credit Default Swap (CDS) Antitrust Investigations and Civil Actions
The Commission and the DOJ-AD commenced investigations into the CDS market in 2011 and 2009, respectively. In December 2015 the Commission 
announced its decision to close its investigations in respect of Barclays Bank PLC and 12 other banks. In July 2016 the Commission announced its 
decision to accept legally binding commitments relating to licensing of inputs for CDS exchange trading from each of the remaining entities subject 
to the investigation, ISDA and Markit Ltd., and close its investigation. The DOJ-AD has also closed its investigation.

A related civil class action in the SDNY involving similar claims against Barclays Bank PLC, other financial institutions, Markit Ltd., and ISDA was 
settled for a total of US$1.864bn (including a payment of US $170m from Barclays Bank PLC). The settlement received final approval in April 2016 
subject to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

Claimed Amounts/Financial Impact
Aside from the settlement discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on 
the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Group's operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

General
The Group is engaged in various other legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions. It is 
subject to legal proceedings by and against the Group which arise in the ordinary course of business from time to time, including (but not limited to) 
disputes in relation to contracts, securities, debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, competition, data protection, money 
laundering, financial crime, employment, environmental and other statutory and common law issues.

The Group is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and other proceedings by 
regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with (but not limited to) consumer protection measures, compliance with legislation 
and regulation, wholesale trading activity and other areas of banking and business activities in which the Group is or has been engaged. The Group 
is keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these matters and others described in this Note on an ongoing basis.

At the present time, the Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these other matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial 
position. However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters and the matters specifically described in this note, there can be no assurance 
that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to the Group's results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, 
depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of income otherwise reported for the 
reporting period.

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 339

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves

The notes included in this section focus on the Group's loan capital and shareholders equity including issued share capital, retained earnings, 
other equity balances and interests of minority shareholders in our subsidiary entities (non-controlling interests). For more information on capital 
management and how the Group maintains sufficient capital to meet our regulatory requirements see pages 200 to 206. 

30 Subordinated liabilities

Accounting for subordinated debt
Subordinated debt is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method under IAS 39.

Subordinated liabilities include accrued interest and comprise undated and dated loan capital as follows:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Undated subordinated liabilities 4,495 5,248
Dated subordinated liabilities 18,888 16,219
Total subordinated liabilities 23,383 21,467

None of the Group's loan capital is secured.

Undated subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities per

balance sheet

Initial call date
2016

£m
2015

£m

Barclays Bank PLC issued
Tier One Notes (TONs)
6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes 2032 17 16
6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes (USD 179m) 2032 232 626
Reserve Capital Instruments (RCIs)
5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2016 – 113
7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments (USD 117m) 2017 100 85
6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 37 38
14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 3,124 3,062
5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2036 54 51
Undated Notes
6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes 2017 140 143
7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes (USD 99m) 2018 84 69
8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes 2018 148 149
7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2020 193 195
6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2027 45 245
Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes (USD 38m) Any interest payment date 31 74
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 Any interest payment date 21 145
Bonds
9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc) 2021 91 91
9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds At any time 47 45
Loans
5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 8,000m) 2028 54 42
5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 12,000m) 2028 77 59
Total undated subordinated liabilities 4,495 5,248

Undated loan capital
Undated loan capital is issued by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the development and expansion of the business and to strengthen the capital 
bases. The principal terms of the undated loan capital are described below:

Subordination
All undated loan capital ranks behind the claims against the bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated 
loan capital in the following order: Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes; other issues of Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans ranking pari passu with each 
other; followed by TONs and RCIs ranking pari passu with each other.

Interest
All undated loan capital bears a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date, with the exception of the 9% Bonds which are fixed for the life of the 
issue, and the Junior and Series 3 Undated Notes which are floating rate.

After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the 6.375%, 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds will bear 
interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates. All other undated loan capital except the two floating rate 
Undated Notes will bear interest, and the two floating rate Undated Notes currently bear interest, at rates fixed periodically in advance based on 
London interbank rates.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
340 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves

30 Subordinated liabilities continued
Payment of interest
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans excluding the 7.7% Undated Notes, 8.25% Undated 
Notes and 9.25% Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain 
cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank. The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 
if, in the immediately preceding 12 months' interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital. Interest not so paid 
becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances. During the year, the Bank declared and paid 
dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.

No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Notes and 8.25% Undated Notes. Until such time as any deferred interest 
has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares, 
preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs. Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of: (i) the date of 
redemption of the RCIs, (ii) the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment, and (iii) in 
respect of the 14% RCIs only, substitution. Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, 
subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.

The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-
compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the PRA. Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption 
of the TONs. Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may (i) declare or pay a 
dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the 
Bank's Reserve Capital Instruments and (ii) certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain 
other securities also apply.

Repayment
All undated loan capital is repayable at the option of the Bank, generally in whole, at the initial call date and on any subsequent coupon or interest 
payment date or in the case of the 6.375%, 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date. 
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank in whole in the event of certain changes in the tax treatment of 
the notes, either at any time, or on an interest payment date. There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest. 
Any repayments require the prior approval of the PRA.

Other
All issues of undated subordinated liabilities are non-convertible.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 341

30 Subordinated liabilities continued

Dated subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities per

balance sheet
Initial

call date
Maturity

date
2016

£m
2015

£m

Barclays PLC issued
2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (EUR 1,250m) 2020 2025 1,084 918
4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,250m) 2024 1,054 883
5.20% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 2,050m) 2026 1,590 –
Barclays Bank PLC issued
6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,556m) 2017 1,316 1,124
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 40m) 2018 34 29
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,750m) 2018 1,590 1,377
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 100m) 2018 90 77
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 135m) 2018 120 103
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 2023 548 555
7.75% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 1,000m) 2018 2023 822 679
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 50m) 2019 42 36
5.14% Lower Tier 2 Notes (USD 1,094m) 2020 956 808
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,500m) 2021 1,444 1,252
9.5% Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc) 2021 286 293
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 100m) 2021 85 73
10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 2,345 2,317
10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,521m) 2021 1,285 1,083
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2022 43 37
6.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,000m) 2022 1,042 891
7.625% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 3,000m) 2022 2,390 1,984
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2023 43 37
5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 384 802
5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan (JPY 15,000m) 2027 103 80
6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 64 60
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 68m) 2040 58 74
Absa Bank Limited issueda

10.28% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 600m) 2017 2022 – 26
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 400m) 2017 2022 – 18
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 1,805m) 2017 2022 – 79
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 2,007m) 2018 2023 – 88
8.295% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 1,188m) 2018 2023 – 42
5.50% CPI-linked Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 1,500m) 2023 2028 – 86
Barclays Africa Group Limited Issueda

Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 370m) 2019 2024 – 16
10.835% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 130m) 2019 2024 – 6
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 1,693m) 2020 2025 – 74
10.05% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 807m) 2020 2025 – 36
11.4% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 288m) 2020 2025 – 13
11.365% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 508m) 2020 2025 – 23
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 437m) 2020 2025 – 19
11.81% Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 737m) 2022 2027 – 33
Subordinated Callable Notes (ZAR 30m) 2022 2027 – 1
Other capital issued by Barclays Africaa 2019 – 3
Capital issued by other subsidiaries 2017-2019 70 84
Total dated subordinated liabilities 18,888 16,219

Dated loan capital
Dated loan capital is issued by the Company, the Bank and respective subsidiaries for the development and expansion of their business and to 
strengthen their respective capital bases. The principal terms of the dated loan capital are described below:

Subordination
Dated loan capital issued by the Company ranks behind the claims against the Company of unsecured unsubordinated creditors but before the 
claims of the holders of its equity.

All dated loan capital issued by the Bank ranks behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors  
but before the claims of the undated loan capital and the holders of its equity. The dated loan capital issued by other subsidiaries is similarly 
subordinated. 

Notes
a Instruments forming part of BAGL have been reclassified to Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale. For more information refer to Note 44 on page 363.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
342 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

30 Subordinated liabilities continued
Interest
Interest on the Floating Rate Notes is fixed periodically in advance, based on the related interbank or local central bank rates. 

Interest on the 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes and the 2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes are fixed until the call date. After the 
respective call dates, in the event that they are not redeemed, the interest rates will be re-set and fixed until maturity based on a market rate.

Repayment
Those Notes with a call date are repayable at the option of the issuer, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or 
in part, and some only in whole. The remaining dated loan capital outstanding at 31 December 2016 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in 
particular cases to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law, or to certain changes in legislation or 
regulations. 

Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of the Company and the Bank, the prior approval of the PRA, or in the case of the overseas 
issues, the approval of the local regulator for that jurisdiction and of the PRA in certain circumstances.

There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.

Other
The 7.625% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically transferred from investors to Barclays PLC (or another entity within the Group) for nil 
consideration in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) 
falls below 7.0%.

The 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically written-down and investors will lose their entire investment in the notes in the event 
the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls below 7.0%.

31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity

Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid

Number of 
shares

m

Ordinary 
shares

£m

Share 
premium

£m

Total share
capital and

share
premium

£m

Other
equity

instruments
£m

As at 1 January 2016 16,805 4,201 17,385 21,586 5,305
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 116 30 158 188 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 42 10 58 68 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 1,132
Other movements – – – – 12
As at 31 December 2016 16,963 4,241 17,601 21,842 6,449

As at 1 January 2015 16,498 4,125 16,684 20,809 4,322
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 253 63 577 640 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 54 13 124 137 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 995
Other movements – – – – (12)
As at 31 December 2015 16,805 4,201 17,385 21,586 5,305

Called up share capital
Called up share capital comprises 16,963m (2015: 16,805m) ordinary shares of 25p each. The increase was due to the issuance of 116m (2015: 
253m) shares under employee share schemes and a further 42m (2015: 54m) issued as part of the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme.

Share repurchase
At the 2016 AGM on 28 April 2016, Barclays PLC was authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 1,681m of its ordinary shares of 25p. 
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2017 or the close of business on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier. No share repurchases 
were made during either 2016 or 2015. 

Other equity instruments
Other equity instruments of £6,449m (2015: £5,305m) include AT1 securities issued by Barclays PLC. In 2016, there was one issuance of Fixed Rate 
Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities, with a principal amount of £1.1bn. In 2015, there was one issuance of Fixed Rate 
Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities, with a principal amount of £1.0bn.

The AT1 securities are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity and are structured to qualify as AT1 instruments under CRD IV.

The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below:

■■ AT1 securities rank behind the claims against Barclays PLC of (i) unsubordinated creditors; (ii) claims which are expressed to be subordinated to 
the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Barclays PLC but not further or otherwise; or (iii) claims which are, or are expressed to be, junior to the 
claims of other creditors of Barclays PLC, whether subordinated or unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, pari 
passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the AT1 securities.

■■ AT1 securities bear a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date. After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the AT1 
securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates.

■■ Interest on the AT1 securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of Barclays PLC, and Barclays PLC has sole and absolute discretion 
at all times and for any reason to cancel (in whole or in part) any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date.

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 343

31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued
■■ AT1 securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after 

the initial call date. In addition, the AT1 securities are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole in the event of certain changes in the  
tax or regulatory treatment of the securities. Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.

All AT1 securities will be converted into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, at a predetermined price, should the fully loaded CET1 ratio of the 
Barclays PLC Group fall below 7.0%.

32 Reserves 
Currency translation reserve 
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Group's net investment in foreign operations, 
net of the effects of hedging. 

As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of £3,051m (2015: £623m debit) in the currency translation reserve. The increase in the credit 
balance of £3,674m (2015: £41m debit) principally reflected the strengthening of all major currencies against GBP. The currency translation reserve 
movement associated with non-controlling interests was a £801m credit (2015: £435m debit) reflecting the strengthening of ZAR against GBP.

During the year a £101m net gain (2015: £65m net loss) from recycling of the currency translation reserve was recognised in the income statement.

Available for sale reserve
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition. 

As at 31 December 2016 there was a debit balance of £74m (2015: £317m credit) in the available for sale reserve. The decrease of £391m (2015: 
£245m decrease) was primarily due to a £2,192m gain from changes in fair value on Government Bonds, predominantly held in the liquidity pool 
which was more than offset by £1,677m of losses from related hedging and £912m of net gains transferred to net profit, mainly due to £615m gain 
on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited. A tax charge of £28m was recognised in the period relating to these items.

Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the 
income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss. 

As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of £2,105m (2015: £1,261m credit) in the cash flow hedging reserve. The increase of £844m 
(2015: £556m decrease) principally reflected a £1,595m increase in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for hedging purposes as interest rate 
forward curves decreased, partially offset by £450m gains recycled to the income statement in line with when the hedged item affects profit or loss 
and tax charge of £326m. The tax charge on cash flow hedge movements represented an effective rate of tax of 27.9% (2015: 10.6%). This tax 
charge reflects the introduction of the new surcharge of 8%, that applies to bank's UK profits with effect from January 2016, in addition to the 
standard UK corporation tax rate of 20%.

Other reserves and treasury shares
As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of £969m (2015: £943m credit) in other reserves and treasury shares.

A credit balance of £1,011m (2015: £1,011m credit ) related to the excess repurchase price paid over nominal of redeemed ordinary and preference 
shares issues by the Group.

The treasury shares relate to Barclays PLC shares held in relation to the Group's various share schemes. These schemes are described in Note 34 
Share-based payments.

Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders' equity within other reserves. A transfer is made to retained earnings in line with the vesting of 
treasury shares held for the purposes of share-based payments.

As at 31 December 2016, there was a debit balance of £42m (2015: £68m debit) in other reserves relating to treasury shares. The decrease 
principally reflected £166m (2015: £618m) transferred from treasury shares reflecting the vesting of deferred share-based payments, partially offset 
by £140m (2015: £602m) net purchases of treasury shares held for the purposes of employee share schemes.

33 Non-controlling interests
Profit attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Equity attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Dividends paid to  

non-controlling interest
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m

Barclays Bank PLC issued:
– Preference shares 340 343 2,698 3,654 340 343
– Upper Tier 2 instruments 3 2 272 486 – –
Barclays Africa Group Limited 402 324 3,507 1,902 235 209
Other non-controlling interests 3 3 15 12 – –
Total 748 672 6,492 6,054 575 552

Subsidiaries of the Group that give rise to significant non-controlling interests are Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Africa Group Limited. 

Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays PLC holds 100% of the voting rights of Barclays Bank PLC. As at 31 December 2016, Barclays Bank PLC has in issue preference shares and 
Upper Tier 2 instruments, representing 11% (2015: 11%) of its equity. Preference share dividends and redemption are typically at the discretion of 
Barclays Bank PLC. The payment of Upper Tier 2 instrument coupons and principal are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC, except for 
coupon payments that become compulsory where Barclays PLC has declared or paid a dividend on ordinary shares in the preceding six-month 
period. Preference share and Upper Tier 2 instrument holders typically only have rights to redeem in the event of insolvency.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
344 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

33 Non-controlling interests continued

Instrument
2016

£m
2015

£m

Preference Shares:
6.00% non cumulative callable preference shares 203 203
6.278% non cumulative callable preference shares 318 318
4.75% non cumulative callable preference shares 211 211
6.625% non cumulative callable preference shares – 406
7.1% non cumulative callable preference shares 657 657
7.75% non cumulative callable preference shares – 550
8.125% non cumulative callable preference shares 1,309 1,309
Total Barclays Bank PLC Preference Shares 2,698 3,654
Barclays Africa Group Limited 277 201
Total 2,975 3,855

Upper Tier 2 Instruments:
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 1 93 222
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 2 179 264
Total Upper Tier 2 Instruments 272 486

Protective rights of non-controlling interests
Barclays Africa Group Limited
Barclays owns 50.2% (50.1% including treasury shares) of the share capital of Barclays Africa Group Limited. Barclays PLC's rights to access the 
assets of Barclays Africa and its group companies are restricted by virtue of the South African Companies Act which requires 75% shareholder 
approval to dispose of all or the greater part of Barclays Africa Group Limited's assets or to complete the voluntary winding up of the entity.

Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays Bank PLC also has in issue preference shares which are non-controlling interests to the Group. Under the terms of these instruments, 
Barclays PLC may not pay dividends on ordinary shares until a dividend is next paid on these instruments or the instruments are redeemed 
or purchased by Barclays Bank PLC. There are no restrictions on Barclays Bank PLC's ability to remit capital to the Parent as a result of these 
issued instruments.

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 345

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits

The notes included in this section focus on the costs and commitments associated with employing our staff. 

34 Share-based payments 

Accounting for share-based payments
The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments in accounting for employee remuneration in the form of shares. 

Employee incentives include awards in the form of shares and share options, as well as offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares 
on favourable terms. The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in the income 
statement over the period that employees provide services, generally the period in which the award is granted or notified and the vesting date  
of the shares or options. The overall cost of the award is calculated using the number of shares and options expected to vest and the fair value  
of the shares or options at the date of grant. 

The number of shares and options expected to vest takes into account the likelihood that performance and service conditions included in the 
terms of the awards will be met. Failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in an acceleration of recognition 
of the cost of the employee services.

The fair value of shares is the market price ruling on the grant date, in some cases adjusted to reflect restrictions on transferability. The fair value 
of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate the numbers of shares likely to vest. These take into account the 
exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the option 
and other relevant factors. Market conditions that must be met in order for the award to vest are also reflected in the fair value of the award,  
as are any other non-vesting conditions – such as continuing to make payments into a share based savings scheme. 

The charge for the year arising from share-based payment schemes was as follows:

Charge for the year
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Share Value Plan 473 442 575
Others 192 86 82
Total equity settled 665 528 657
Cash settled 1 4 5
Total share based payments 666 532 662

The terms of the main current plans are as follows:

Share Value Plan (SVP)
The SVP was introduced in March 2010 and approved by shareholders (for Executive Director participation and use of new issue shares) at the AGM 
in April 2011. SVP awards are granted to participants in the form of a conditional right to receive Barclays PLC shares or provisional allocations of 
Barclays PLC shares which vest or are considered for release over a period of three years in equal annual tranches. Participants do not pay to receive 
an award or to receive a release of shares. The grantor may also make a dividend equivalent payment to participants on release of a SVP award.  
SVP awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes. All awards are subject to potential forfeiture in certain leaver scenarios. 
See Note 8 for additional detail on share awards granted under SVP.

Other schemes 
In addition to the SVP, the Group operates a number of other schemes including schemes operated by, and settled in, the shares of subsidiary 
undertakings, none of which is individually or in aggregate material in relation to the charge for the year or the dilutive effect of outstanding share 
options. Included within other schemes are Sharesave (both UK and overseas), the Barclays' Long Term Incentive Plan, the Share Incentive Award 
and the Executive Share Award Scheme.

Share option and award plans
The weighted average fair value per award granted and weighted average share price at the date of exercise/release of shares during the year was:

Weighted average  
fair value per award  

granted in year

Weighted average  
share price at exercise/

release during year
2016

£
2015

£
2016

£
2015

£

SVPa 1.66 2.54 1.66 2.53
Othersa 0.61-1.67 0.49-2.54 1.65-1.88 2.37-2.67

SVP are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant. Consequently the fair value of these 
awards is based on the market value at that date.

Notes
a  Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
346 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits

34 Share-based payments continued
Movements in options and awards
The movement in the number of options and awards for the major schemes and the weighted average exercise price of options was:

SVPa,b Othersa,c

Number (000s) Number (000s)
Weighted average

ex. price (£)
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015

Outstanding at beginning of 
year/acquisition date 386,470 480,042 166,975 185,599 1.75 1.61
Granted in the year 229,371 186,397 154,069 55,982 1.20 2.27
Exercised/released in the year  (191,623)  (252,031)  (60,912)  (50,538) 1.39 1.41
Less: forfeited in the year  (18,202)  (27,938)  (47,342)  (20,811) 1.95 1.76
Less: expired in the year – –  (7,661)  (3,257) 1.83 2.39
Outstanding at end of year 406,016 386,470 205,129 166,975 1.38 1.75
Of which exercisable: 30 24,435 26,058 1.78 1.48

Certain of the Group's share option plans enable certain Directors and employees to subscribe for new ordinary shares of Barclays PLC. For 
accounting for treasury shares see Note 32 Reserves.

The weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options and awards outstanding (including those exercisable) at the balance sheet 
date are as follows:

2016 2015
Weighted

average
remaining

contractual
life in years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)

Weighted
average

remaining
contractual
life in years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)

SVPa,b 1 406,016 1 386,470
Othersa 0-3 205,129 0-2 166,975

There were no significant modifications to the share-based payments arrangements in 2016 and 2015.

As at 31 December 2016, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payments transactions was £nil (2015: £13m).

Holdings of Barclays PLC shares
Various employee benefit trusts established by the Group hold shares in Barclays PLC to meet obligations under the Barclays share based payment 
schemes. The total number of Barclays shares held in these employee benefit trusts at 31 December 2016 was 6.6 million (2015: 5.1 million). 
Dividend rights have been waived on all these shares. The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year end share price of  
£2.23 (2015: £2.19) was £14.7m (2015: £11.2m).

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits 

Accounting for pensions and post retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of pension schemes and post-employment benefit schemes.

Defined contribution schemes – the Group recognises contributions due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement. 
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.

Defined benefit schemes – the Group recognises its obligations to members of each scheme at the period end, less the fair value of the scheme 
assets after applying the asset ceiling test. The clarifications contained in the proposed amendments to IFRIC 14 as to when an entity has an 
unconditional right to benefit from a scheme surplus are not expected to have a material impact on the Group. The Trustee board do not have a 
substantive right to augment benefits in the UKRF, nor do they have the right to wind up the plan except in the dissolution of the Bank or 
termination of contributions by the Bank.

Each scheme's obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are stated at fair value as at the period end.

Changes in pension scheme liabilities or assets (remeasurements) that do not arise from regular pension cost, net interest on net defined benefit 
liabilities or assets, past service costs, settlements or contributions to the scheme, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Remeasurements comprise experience adjustments (differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred), the 
effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, return on scheme assets (excluding amounts included in the interest on the assets) and any changes 
in the effect of the asset ceiling restriction (excluding amounts included in the interest on the restriction).

Post-employment benefit schemes – the cost of providing health care benefits to retired employees is accrued as a liability in the financial 
statements over the period that the employees provide services to the Group, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit 
pension schemes.

Notes
a  Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares. 
b  Nil cost award and therefore the weighted average exercise price was nil.
c  The number of awards within Others at the end of the year principally relates to Sharesave (number of awards exercisable at end of year was 10,584,072).  

The weighted average exercise price relates to Sharesave.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 347

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued
Pension schemes 
UK Retirement Fund (UKRF)
The UKRF is the Group's main scheme, representing 96% of the Group's total retirement benefit obligations. The UKRF was closed to new entrants 
on 1 October 2012, and comprises 10 sections, the two most significant of which are: 

■■ Afterwork, which comprises a contributory cash balance defined benefit element, and a voluntary defined contribution element. The cash balance 
element is accrued each year and revalued until Normal Retirement Age in line with the increase in Retail Price Index (RPI) (up to a maximum of 
5% p.a.). An investment related increase of up to 2% a year may also be added at Barclays' discretion. Between 1 October 2003 and 1 October 
2012 the majority of new employees outside of the investment banking business within Barclays International were eligible to join this section.  
The costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits for Afterwork members are borne by the UKRF. The main risks that Barclays runs in 
relation to Afterwork are limited although additional contributions are required if pre-retirement investment returns are not sufficient to provide for 
the benefits.

■■ The 1964 Pension Scheme. Most employees recruited before July 1997 built up benefits in this non-contributory defined benefit scheme in respect 
of service up to 31 March 2010. Pensions were calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary. From 1 April 2010, members became 
eligible to accrue future service benefits in either Afterwork or the Pension Investment Plan (PIP), a historic defined contribution section which is 
now closed to future contributions. The risks that Barclays runs in relation to the 1964 section are typical of final salary pension schemes, 
principally that investment returns fall short of expectations, that inflation exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer than expected.

Barclays Pension Savings Plan (BPSP)
■■ From 1 October 2012, a new UK pension scheme, the BPSP, was established to satisfy Auto Enrolment legislation. The BPSP is a defined 

contribution scheme (Group Personal Pension) providing benefits for all new Barclays UK hires from 1 October 2012, investment banking business 
within Barclays International employees who were in PIP as at 1 October 2012, and also all UK employees who were not members of a pension 
scheme at that date. As a defined contribution scheme, BPSP is not subject to the same investment return, inflation or life expectancy risks for 
Barclays that defined benefit schemes are. Members' benefits reflect contributions paid and the level of investment returns achieved.  

Apart from the UKRF and the BPSP, Barclays operates a number of smaller pension and long-term employee benefits and post-retirement health care 
plans globally, the largest of which are the US defined benefit schemes. Many of the schemes are funded, with assets backing the obligations held in 
separate legal vehicles such as trusts. Others are operated on an unfunded basis. The benefits provided, the approach to funding, and the legal basis 
of the schemes, reflect local environments. 

Governance 
The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and 
Rules and all relevant legislation. The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited, a private limited company and a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC. The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the assets of the Group.

The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship with 
Barclays or the UKRF, plus three Member Nominated Directors selected from eligible active staff and pensioner members who apply for the role.

The BPSP is a Group Personal Pension arrangement which operates as a collection of personal pension plans. Each personal pension plan is a direct 
contract between the employee and the BPSP provider (Legal & General Assurance Society Limited), and is regulated by the FCA.

Similar principles of pension governance apply to the Group's other pension schemes, depending on local legislation.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
348 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued
Amounts recognised
The following tables include amounts recognised in the income statement and an analysis of benefit obligations and scheme assets for all Group 
defined benefit schemes. The net position is reconciled to the assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. The tables include funded and 
unfunded post-retirement benefits. 

Income statement chargea
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Current service cost 243 255 279
Net finance cost (32) 41 69
Past service cost – (432) (1)
Other movements 2 1 (15)
Total 213 (135) 332

Past service costs includes a £nil (2015: £429m; 2014: £nil) gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability.

Balance sheet reconciliationa 2016 2015

Total
£m

Of which
relates to

UKRF
£m

Total
£m

Of which
relates to

UKRF
£m

Benefit obligation at beginning of the year (28,279) (26,027) (30,392) (27,931)
Current service cost (243) (220) (303) (234)
Interest costs on scheme liabilities (1,016) (980) (1,147) (1,010)
Past service cost – – 434 429
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – financial (7,214) (7,170) 1,161 1,121
Remeasurement gain/(loss) – demographic 413 390 (159) (160)
Remeasurement gain – experience 525 490 609 611
Employee contributions (4) (1) (36) (2)
Benefits paid 1,852 1,800 1,172 1,021
Exchange and other movements 933 (129) 382 128
Benefit obligation at end of the year (33,033) (31,847) (28,279) (26,027)
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of the year 28,752 26,829 28,874 26,827
Interest income on scheme assets 1,048 1,023 1,105 979
Employer contribution 720 634 689 586
Remeasurement – return on scheme assets greater/(less) than discount rate 5,009 5,002 (476) (446)
Employee contributions 4 1 36 2
Benefits paid (1,852) (1,800) (1,172) (1,021)
Exchange and other movements (1,024) 131 (304) (98)
Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 32,657 31,820 28,752 26,829
Net (deficit)/surplus (376) (27) 473 802
Irrecoverable surplus (effect of asset ceiling) – – (60) –
Net recognised (liabilities)/assets (376) (27) 413 802
Retirement benefit assets 14 – 836 802
Retirement benefit liabilities (390) (27) (423) –
Net retirement benefit (liabilities)/assets (376) (27) 413 802

Included within the benefit obligation was £979m (2015: £2,050m) relating to overseas pensions and £207m (2015: £202m) relating to other 
post-employment benefits. 

As at 31 December 2016, the UKRF's scheme assets were in deficit versus IAS 19 obligations by £27m (2015: surplus of £802m). The movement  
for the UKRF is mainly due to a decrease in discount rate to 2.62% (2015: 3.82%), and an increase in inflation rate to 3.35% (2015: 3.05%) partially 
offset by deficit contributions, updated mortality assumptions based on scheme experience, and higher than assumed returns on plan assets.  
The UKRF benefits paid of £1,800m (2015: £1,021m) included transfers out of the fund and contribution refunds of £1,029m (2015: £270m).

Where a scheme's assets exceed its obligation, an asset is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution 
holidays or refunds of contributions (the “asset ceiling”). In the case of the UKRF the asset ceiling is not applied as, in certain specified circumstances 
such as wind-up, Barclays expects to be able to recover any surplus. The application of the asset ceiling to other plans is considered on an individual 
plan basis.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Actuarial valuation of the schemes' obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, below is a summary of the main financial and 
demographic assumptions adopted for the UKRF.

Key UKRF financial assumptions
2016

% p.a.
2015

% p.a.

Discount rate 2.62 3.82
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.35 3.05

Note
a  Comparative information for the income statement charge has been restated to exclude BAGL which has been reclassified as held for sale. Please see page 268 for further details.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 349

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued
The UKRF discount rate assumption for 2016 was based on a variant of the standard Willis Towers Watson RATE Link model. This variant includes  
all bonds rated AA by at least one of the four major ratings agencies, and assumes that yields after year 30 are flat. The RPI inflation assumption for 
2016 was set by reference to the Bank of England's implied inflation spot curve, assuming the spot curve remains flat after the published 25 years. 
The inflation assumption incorporates a deduction of 20 basis points as an allowance for an inflation risk premium. The methodology used to derive 
the discount rate and price inflation assumption is consistent with that used at the prior year end.

The UKRF's post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on a best estimate assumption derived from an analysis in 2016 of Barclays own 
post-retirement mortality experience, and taking account of recent evidence from published mortality surveys. An allowance has been made for 
future mortality improvements based on the 2015 core projection model published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau subject to 
a long-term trend of 1.25% per annum in future improvements. The table below shows how the assumed life expectancy at 60, for members of  
the UKRF, has varied over the past three years:

Assumed life expectancy 2016 2015 2014
Life expectancy at 60 for current pensioners (years)
– Males 27.9 28.4 28.3
– Females 29.7 30.0 29.9
Life expectancy at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 (years)
– Males 29.7 30.2 30.1
– Females 31.7 32.0 31.9

Sensitivity analysis on actuarial assumptions
The sensitivity analysis has been calculated by valuing the UKRF liabilities using the amended assumptions shown in the table below and keeping 
the remaining assumptions as disclosed in the table above the same, except in the case of the inflation sensitivity where other assumptions that 
depend on assumed inflation have also been amended. The difference between the recalculated liability figure and that stated in the balance sheet 
reconciliation table above is the figure shown. The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to key 
assumptions should not be interpreted as Barclays expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening.

Change in key assumptions
2016 2015

(Decrease)/
Increase 
in UKRF
defined
benefit

obligation
£bn

(Decrease)/
Increase
in UKRF
defined
benefit

obligation
£bn

Discount rate
0.5% p.a. increase (2.8) (2.1)
0.25% p.a. increase (1.4) (1.1)
0.25% p.a. decrease 1.5 1.2
0.5% p.a. decrease 3.2 2.4
Assumed RPI
0.5% p.a. increase 1.9 1.4
0.25% p.a. increase 0.9 0.7
0.25% p.a. decrease (0.9) (0.7)
0.5% p.a. decrease (2.0) (1.3)
Life expectancy at 60
One year increase 1.1 0.9
One year decrease (1.1) (0.9)

The weighted average duration of the benefit payments reflected in the defined benefit obligation for the UKRF is 20 years. 

Assets
A long-term investment strategy has been set for the UKRF, with its asset allocation comprising a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other 
appropriate assets. This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more 
volatile than others. The long-term investment strategy ensures, among other aims, that investments are adequately diversified. Asset managers are 
permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term investment strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustee from 
time to time.

The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to 
liabilities. The value of assets shown reflects the assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a fair value basis. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
350 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued
The value of the assets of the schemes and their percentage in relation to total scheme assets were as follows:

Analysis of scheme assets
Total Of which relates to UKRF

Value
£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%
Value

£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%

As at 31 December 2016
Equities – quoted 8,123 24.9 7,840 24.6
Equities – non-quoted 2,043 6.3 2,042 6.4
Bonds – fixed governmenta 1,330 4.1 1,072 3.4
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 13,173 40.3 13,165 41.4
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,222 16.0 5,054 15.9
Property – commercialb 1,630 5.0 1,622 5.1
Derivativesb 870 2.7 870 2.7
Otherb 266 0.7 155 0.5
Fair value of scheme assets 32,657 100.0 31,820 100.0

As at 31 December 2015
Equities – quoted 7,764 27.0 6,947 25.9
Equities – non-quoted 1,757 6.1 1,750 6.5
Bonds – fixed governmenta 1,105 3.8 577 2.2
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 9,677 33.7 9,670 36.0
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,856 20.4 5,680 21.2
Property – commercialb 1,602 5.6 1,581 5.9
Derivativesb 183 0.6 183 0.7
Otherb 808 2.8 441 1.6
Fair value of scheme assets 28,752 100.0 26,829 100.0

Included within the fair value of scheme assets were: £0.2m (2015: £5m) relating to shares in Barclays PLC, £0.1m (2015: £23m) relating to bonds 
issued by the Barclays PLC, £nil (2015: £6m) relating to property occupied by Group companies, and £nil (2015: £7m) relating to other investments. 
The UKRF also invests in pooled investment vehicles which may hold shares or debt issued by Barclays PLC.

The UKRF scheme assets also include £32m (2015: £36m) relating to UK private equity investments and £2,009m (2015: £1,714m) relating to 
overseas private equity investments. These are disclosed above within Equities – non-quoted.

Approximately 40% of the UKRF assets are invested in liability-driven investment strategies; primarily UK gilts as well as interest rate and inflation swaps. 
These are used to better match the assets to liabilities. The swaps are used to reduce the scheme's inflation and duration risks against liabilities.

Notes
a  Assets held are predominately quoted.
b  Assets held are predominantly non-quoted.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 351

35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued
Funding
The triennial funding valuation of the UKRF is currently underway with an effective date of 30 September 2016. Contribution requirements, including 
any deficit recovery plans, must be agreed by 31 December 2017, and are expected to be agreed between the Bank and Trustee well in advance of 
this statutory deadline. In these discussions, the Bank and the Trustee are taking into account the impact of the Structural Reform Programme. 

The previous triennial funding valuation at 30 September 2013 showed a deficit of £3.6bn and a funding level of 87.4%. The Bank and Trustee agreed a 
scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles, a schedule of contributions and a recovery plan to eliminate the deficit relative to the 
funding target. The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 assumptions are a more prudent discount rate and longevity assumptions for funding.

The recovery plan agreed as part of the 2013 actuarial valuation provided for the Bank to pay deficit contributions to the UKRF until 2021. Deficit 
contributions of £300m were paid in 2015 and in 2016. Under the existing recovery plan, further deficit contributions of £740m per annum are 
payable during 2017 to 2021, and up to £500m of the 2021 deficit contribution is payable in 2017 depending on the deficit level at that time. 
These deficit contributions are in addition to the regular contributions to meet the Group's share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year. 

In non-valuation years, the Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position. The latest annual update was carried out as at 
30 September 2015 and showed a deficit of £6.0bn and a funding level of 82.7%.The contributions paid to the UKRF are agreed between Barclays 
and the Trustee every three years.

Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows:

Contributions paid
£m

2016 634
2015 586
2014 241

Included within the Group's contributions paid were £112m (2015: £nil; 2014: £nil) Section 75 contributions.

The Group's expected contribution to the UKRF in respect of defined benefits in 2017 is £1,585m (2016: £634m) including £167m Section 75 
contributions. In addition, the expected contributions to UK defined contribution schemes in 2017 is £36m (2016: £49m) to the UKRF and £124m 
(2016: £126m) to the BPSP. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
352 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation

36 Principal subsidiaries

Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays 
PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control. Under IFRS 10, this is when the Group is exposed or has 
rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.

The Group reassesses whether it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there have been changes to its power, its rights to 
variable returns or its ability to use its power to affect the amount of its returns.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the 
purposes of the consolidation. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control 
has been obtained and they do not result in loss of control.

The significant judgements used in applying this policy are set out below.

Accounting for investment in subsidiaries
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment.

Principal subsidiaries for the Group are set out below. This includes those subsidiaries that are most significant in the context of the Group's 
business, results or financial position.

Company Name
Principal place of business or 
incorporation Nature of business

Percentage
of voting

rights held
%

Non-
controlling
interests –

proportion of
ownership

interests
%

Non-
controlling
interests –

proportion of
voting

interests
%

Barclays Bank PLC England Banking, holding company 100 11 –
Barclays Capital Securities Limited England Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Securities Japan Limited Japan Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Africa Group Limited South Africa Banking 50.1 49.9 49.9
Barclays Capital Inc US Securities dealing 100 – -
Barclays Bank Delaware US Credit card issuer 100 – –

The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries. 

Ownership interests are in some cases different to voting interests due to the existence of non-voting equity interests, such as preference shares. 
See Note 33 Non-controlling interests for more information. 

Barclays Private Clients International Limited was considered a principal subsidiary in 2015. Barclays Private Clients International Limited transferred 
all associated assets and liabilities to Barclays Bank PLC in October 2016.

Significant judgements and assumptions used to determine the scope of the consolidation
Determining whether the Group has control of an entity is generally straightforward based on ownership of the majority of the voting capital. 
However, in certain instances, this determination will involve significant judgement, particularly in the case of structured entities where voting rights 
are often not the determining factor in decisions over the relevant activities. This judgement may involve assessing the purpose and design of the 
entity. It will also often be necessary to consider whether the Group, or another involved party with power over the relevant activities, is acting as a 
principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others. 

There is also often considerable judgement involved in the ongoing assessment of control over structured entities. In this regard, where market 
conditions have deteriorated such that the other investors' exposures to the structure's variable returns have been substantively eliminated, the 
Group may conclude that the managers of the structured entity are acting as its agent and therefore will consolidate the structured entity. 

An interest in equity voting rights exceeding 50% would typically indicate that the Group has control of an entity. However, certain entities, as set out 
below, are excluded from consolidation because the Group does not have exposure to their variable returns. 

Country of registration or incorporation Company name
Percentage of voting

rights held (%)
Equity shareholders'

funds (£m)
Retained profit for

the year (£m)

UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 – –
Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 2 1

These entities are managed by external counterparties and consequently are not controlled by the Group. Where appropriate, interests relating to 
these entities are included in Note 37 Structured entities.

Significant restrictions
As is typical for a Group of its size and international scope, there are restrictions on the ability of Barclays PLC to obtain distributions of capital, access 
the assets or repay the liabilities of members of its Group due to the statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements of its subsidiaries and due to 
the protective rights of non-controlling interests. These are considered on the next page.

The section presents information on the Group's investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and its interests in structured entities. 
Detail is also given on securitisation transactions the Group has entered into and arrangements that are held off balance sheet. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 353

36 Principal subsidiaries continued
Regulatory requirements
Barclays' principal subsidiary companies have assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations of £1,553bn (2015: £1,468bn) and £1,480bn 
(2015: £1,398bn) respectively. The assets and liabilities are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in the countries in 
which they are regulated. These require entities to maintain minimum capital levels which cannot be returned to the parent company, Barclays PLC 
on a going concern basis. 

In order to meet capital requirements, subsidiaries may hold certain equity-accounted and debt-accounted issued financial instruments and 
non-equity instruments such as Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments and other forms of subordinated liabilities. See Note 28 Contingent liabilities 
and commitments, Note 30 Subordinated liabilities and Note 33 Non-controlling interests for particulars of these instruments. These instruments 
may be subject to cancellation clauses or preference share restrictions that would limit the ability of the entity to repatriate the capital on a 
timely basis.

Liquidity requirements
Regulated subsidiaries of the Group are required to maintain liquidity pools to meet PRA and local regulatory requirements. The main subsidiaries 
affected are Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Africa Group Limited and Barclays Capital Inc which must maintain daily compliance with the regulatory 
minimum. See pages 207 to 224 for further details of liquidity requirements, including those of our significant subsidiaries.

Statutory requirements 
The Group's subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits and generally to maintain 
solvency. These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to make remittances of dividends to Barclays PLC, the ultimate parent, except in the 
event of a legal capital reduction or liquidation. In most cases, the regulatory restrictions referred to above exceed the statutory restrictions.

Contractual requirements
Asset encumbrance
The Group uses its financial assets to raise finance in the form of securitisations and through the liquidity schemes of central banks. Once 
encumbered, the assets are not available for transfer around the Group. The assets typically affected are disclosed in Note 40 Assets Pledged.

Assets held by consolidated structured entities
£99m (2015: £80m) of assets included in the Group's balance sheet relate to consolidated investment funds and are held to pay return and principal 
to the holders of units in the funds. The assets held in these funds cannot be transferred to other members of the Group. 

Other restrictions
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities, and these amounted to £4,254m (2015: £4,369m). 

Barclays Africa Group Limited assets are subject to exchange control regulation determined by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). Special 
dividends and loans in lieu of dividends cannot be transferred without SARB approval. 

37 Structured entities
A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are generally 
created to achieve a narrow and well defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. 

Depending on the Group's power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the 
entity. In other cases, it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it.

Consolidated structured entities
The Group has contractual arrangements which may require it to provide financial support to the following types of consolidated structured entities:

Securitisation vehicles
The Group uses securitisation as a source of financing and a means of risk transfer. Refer to Note 39 Securitisations for further detail.

The Group provides liquidity facilities to certain securitisation vehicles. At 31 December 2016, there were outstanding loan commitments to these 
entities totalling £152m (2015: £135m).

Commercial paper (CP) and medium-term note conduits
The Group provided £9bn (2015: £8.5bn) in undrawn contractual backstop liquidity facilities to CP conduits.

Fund management entities
Barclays has contractually guaranteed the performance of certain cash investments in a number of managed investment funds which have resulted 
in their consolidation. As at 31 December 2016, the notional value of the guarantee was £99m (2015: £257m). The decrease is primarily due to the 
closure of a number of European wealth funds during the year, as well as a reduction in fund assets. 

Employee benefit and other trusts
The Group provides capital contributions to employee share trusts to enable them to meet their obligations to employees under share-based 
payment plans. During 2016, the Group provided undrawn liquidity facilities of £0.4bn (2015: £0.8bn) to certain trusts.

Unconsolidated Structured Entities in which the Group has an interest
An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual involvement which creates variability in returns arising from the 
performance of the entity for the Group. Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, derivatives that transfer financial risks from the 
entity to the Group, lending, loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management agreements.

Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives that are not complex and which expose the Group to insignificant credit risk by being senior in the 
payment waterfall of a securitisation and derivatives that are determined to introduce risk or variability to a structured entity are not considered to be 
an interest in an entity and have been excluded from the disclosures below.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
354 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation

37 Structured entities continued
The nature and extent of the Group's interests in structured entities is summarised below:

Summary of interests in unconsolidated structured entities

Secured
financing

£m

Short-term
traded

interests
£m

Traded
derivatives

£m

Other
interests

£m
Total

£m

As at 31 December 2016
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 8,436 – 516 8,952
Financial assets designated at fair value 22,706 – – 367 23,073
Derivative financial instruments – – 4,731 2,130 6,861
Available for sale investments – – – 894 894
Loans and advances to banks – – – 4,915 4,915
Loans and advances to customers – – – 24,142 24,142
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 6,338 – – – 6,338
Other assets – – – 25 25
Total assets 29,044 8,436 4,731 32,989 75,200
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 3,567 2,130 5,697

As at 31 December 2015
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 8,949 – 1,648 10,597
Financial assets designated at fair value 12,382 – – 353 12,735
Derivative financial instruments – – 4,427 1,926 6,353
Available for sale investments – – – 1,060 1,060
Loans and advances to banks – – – 4,067 4,067
Loans and advances to customers – – – 27,700 27,700
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 7,117 – – – 7,117
Other assets – – – 31 31
Total assets 19,499 8,949 4,427 36,785 69,660
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 2,761 1,926 4,687

Secured financing arrangements, short-term traded interests and traded derivatives are typically managed under market risk management policies 
described on page 191 which includes an indication of the change of risk measures compared to last year. For this reason, the total assets of  
these entities are not considered meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented. Other interests 
include a  portfolio held within Non-Core which is being managed down, conduits and corporate lending where the interest is driven by normal 
customer demand.

Secured financing 
The Group routinely enters into reverse repurchase contracts, stock borrowing and similar arrangements on normal commercial terms where the 
counterparty to the arrangement is a structured entity. Due to the nature of these arrangements, especially the transfer of collateral and ongoing 
margining, the Group has minimal exposure to the performance of the structured entity counterparty. A description of these transactions is included 
in Note 22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing. 

Short-term traded interests
The Group buys and sells interests in structured entities as part of its trading activities, for example, retail mortgage-backed securities, collateralised 
debt obligations and similar interests. Such interests are typically held individually or as part of a larger portfolio for no more than 90 days. In such 
cases, the Group typically has no other involvement with the structured entity other than the securities it holds as part of trading activities and its 
maximum exposure to loss is restricted to the carrying value of the asset.

As at 31 December 2016, £6,568m (2015: £7,443m) of the Group's £8,436m (2015: £8,949m) short-term traded interests were comprised of debt 
securities issued by asset securitisation vehicles.

Traded derivatives
The Group enters into a variety of derivative contracts with structured entities which reference market risk variables such as interest rates, foreign 
exchange rates and credit indices amongst other things. The main derivative types which are considered interests in structured entities include 
index-based and entity specific credit default swaps, balance guaranteed swaps, total return swaps, commodities swaps, and equity swaps. 
A description of the types of derivatives and the risk management practices are detailed in Note 15 Derivative financial instruments. The risk of 
loss may be mitigated through ongoing margining requirements as well as a right to cash flows from the structured entity which are senior in the 
payment waterfall. Such margining requirements are consistent with market practice for many derivative arrangements and in line with the Group's 
normal credit policies. 

Derivative transactions require the counterparty to provide cash or other collateral under margining agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. 
The Group is exposed to settlement risk only on these derivatives which is mitigated through daily margining. Total notionals amounted to 
£1,183,215m (2015: £1,117,642m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 355

37 Structured entities continued
Except for credit default swaps where the maximum exposure to loss is the swap notional amount, it is not possible to estimate the maximum 
exposure to loss in respect of derivative positions as the fair value of derivatives is subject to changes in market rates of interest, exchange rates and 
credit indices which by their nature are uncertain. In addition, the Group's losses would be subject to mitigating action under its traded market risk 
and credit risk policies that require the counterparty to provide collateral in cash or other assets on a daily basis in most cases.

Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities
The Group's interests in structured entities not held for the purposes of short-term trading activities are set out below, summarised by the purpose 
of the entities and limited to significant categories, based on maximum exposure to loss.

Nature of interest
Structured

credit
portfolio

£m

Multi-seller
conduit

programmes
£m

Lending
£m

Mortgage-
backed

securities
£m

Investment
funds and

trusts
£m

Others
£m

Total
£m

As at 31 December 2016
Trading portfolio assets
– Debt securities 441 –  –  –  –  –  441
– Equity securities – –  –  –  –  75 75
Financial assets designated at fair value
– Loans and advances to customers –  –  260 –  –  4 264
– Debt securities –  –  50 –  –  48 98
– Equity securities –  –  –  –  –  5 5
Derivative financial instruments –  –  –  –  –  2,130 2,130
Available for sale investments
– Debt securities 535 –  –  357 –  2 894
Loans and advances to banks – – 4,890 –  –  25 4,915
Loans and advances to customers 637  6,016  16,754 –  –  735 24,142
Other assets –  5 7 –  13 –  25
Total on balance sheet exposures 1,613 6,021 21,961 357 13 3,024 32,989
Total off balance sheet notional amounts 681 2,734 9,873 –  –  1,058 14,346
Maximum exposure to loss 2,294 8,755 31,834 357 13 4,082 47,335
Total assets of the entity 22,508 75,535 492,950 12,213 18,550 4,621 626,377
As at 31 December 2015
Trading portfolio assets
– Debt securities 1,545 –  –  –  –  40 1,585
– Equity securities –  –  –  –  –  63 63
Financial assets designated at fair value
– Loans and advances to customers –  –  247 –  –  6 253
– Debt securities –  –  41 –  –  57 98
– Equity securities –  –  –  –  –  2 2
Derivative financial instruments –  –  –  –  –  1,926 1,926
Available for sale investments
– Debt securities 537 –  –  515 –  8 1,060
Loans and advances to banks – – 4,051 –  –  16 4,067
Loans and advances to customers 1,599  5,029  20,571 –  –  501 27,700
Other assets –  4 7 –  20 –  31
Total on balance sheet exposures 3,681 5,033 24,917 515 20 2,619 36,785
Total off balance sheet notional amounts 708 3,042 10,225 –  –  1,409 15,384
Maximum exposure to loss 4,389 8,075 35,142 515 20 4,028 52,169
Total assets of the entity 36,290 81,355 376,296 115,351 21,766 5,084 636,142

Maximum exposure to loss
Unless specified otherwise below, the Group's maximum exposure to loss is the total of its on balance sheet positions and its off balance sheet 
arrangements, being loan commitments and financial guarantees. Exposure to loss is mitigated through collateral, financial guarantees, the 
availability of netting and credit protection held.

Structured Credit Portfolio
This comprises interests in debt securities issued by securitisation vehicles, mainly Collateralised Loan Obligations (CLOs), Collateralised Debt 
Obligations (CDOs), Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securitisation structures (RMBSs and CMBSs), and drawn and undrawn loan 
facilities to these entities. The entities are wholly debt financed through the issuance of tranches of debt securities or through direct funding, such 
as the loan facilities provided by the Group. As the underlying assets of the entities amortise and pay down, the debt securities issued by the entities 
are repaid in order of seniority. Where the entities experience significant credit deterioration, debt securities may be written off or cancelled in reverse 
order of seniority. 

As at 31 December 2016, the £1,613m (2015: £3,681m) Group's funded exposures comprised of £441m (2015: £1,545m) debt securities at fair value and 
£637m (2015: £1,599m) amortised cost loans and advances. Of which £645m (2015: £2,783m) were within investment grade, and the remainder either 
non-investment grade or not rated. The Group also had £681m (2015: £708m) of unfunded exposures in the form of undrawn liquidity commitments. 
Of the £2,294m (2015: £4,389m) of funded and unfunded exposures, £2,294m (2015: £4,387m) is senior in the capital structure of the entity. 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
356 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation

37 Structured entities continued
Though the Group's funded exposures are primarily investment grade and senior in the capital structure, there are cases where the interests that are 
subordinate to the Group's senior and mezzanine interests have minimal or no value, due to decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral 
held by the entity.

The Group's income from these entities comprises trading income (largely gains and losses on changes in the fair value and interest earned on 
bonds) on items classified as held for trading and interest income on interests classified as loans and receivables. 

During 2016, the Group recorded a fair value gain of £78m (2015: £4m loss) on debt securities, impairment losses recorded on loans and advances 
were immaterial in both the current and prior year.

Multi-seller conduit programme
The multi-seller conduit engages in providing financing to various clients and hold whole or partial interests in pools of receivables or similar 
obligations. These instruments are protected from loss through over-collateralisation, seller guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided to 
the conduit. The Group's off balance sheet exposure included in the table above represents liquidity facilities that are provided to the conduit for the 
benefit of the holders of the commercial paper issued by the conduit and will only be drawn where the conduit is unable to access the commercial 
paper market. If these liquidity facilities are drawn, the Group is protected from loss through over-collateralisation, seller guarantees, or other credit 
enhancements provided to the conduit. The Group also has overlapping exposure to the conduit that arises from the letter of credit and the 
programme loan. The letter of credit is an unfunded commitment that is only funded to cover credit losses up to 10% of total commitments. 
The programme loan, which allows the conduit to comply with US risk retention rules, is a funded exposure that is positioned pari passu with the 
interests of commercial paper holders. The Group earns income from fees received on the liquidity facility and letter of credit provided to the conduit, 
as well as from management fees. There were no impairment losses on this lending in either of the current year or the prior year.

Lending
The portfolio includes lending provided by the Group to unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of its lending business to earn 
income in the form of interest and lending fees and includes loans to structured entities that are generally collateralised by property, equipment or 
other assets. All loans are subject to the Group's credit sanctioning process. Collateral arrangements are specific to the circumstances of each loan 
with additional guarantees and collateral sought from the sponsor of the structured entity for certain arrangements. During the period the Group 
incurred an impairment of £24m (2015: £35m) against such facilities. The main types of lending are £2bn (2015: £3bn) of funding loans to 
bankruptcy remote structured entities to either invest or develop properties, £3bn (2015: £4bn) of loans to structured entities which have been 
created by an individual to hold one or more assets, £2bn (2015: £2bn) to entities whose operations are limited to financing or funding the 
acquisition of specific assets such as schools, hospitals, roads and renewable energy projects under the Private Finance Initiative (PFI), and £1bn 
(2015: £1bn) of funding loans to bankruptcy remote structured entities to enable them to purchase capital equipment for parent companies and are 
supported by government export guarantees. 

Mortgage-backed securities
This represents a portfolio of floating rate notes used as an accounting hedge of interest rate risk under the Group's structural hedging programme. 
All notes are investment grade. The portfolio has decreased owing to a reduced requirement for hedge accounting capacity in Sterling.

Investment funds and trusts 
In the course of its fund management activities, the Group establishes pooled investment funds that comprise investments of various kinds, tailored 
to meet certain investors' requirements. The Group's interest in funds is generally restricted to a fund management fee, the value of which is typically 
based on the performance of the fund.

The Group acts as trustee to a number of trusts established by or on behalf of its clients. The purpose of the trusts, which meet the definition of 
structured entities, is to hold assets on behalf of beneficiaries. The Group's interest in trusts is generally restricted to unpaid fees which, depending 
on the trust, may be fixed or based on the value of the trust assets. Barclays has no other risk exposure to the trusts.

Other
This includes £2,130m (2015: £1,926m) of derivative transactions with structured entities where the market risk is materially hedged with 
corresponding derivative contracts.

Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities
Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities were immaterial.

38 Investments in associates and joint ventures

Accounting for associates and joint ventures
Barclays applies IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. Associates are entities in which the Group has significant 
influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies. Generally the Group holds more than 20%, but less than 50%, of their voting 
shares. Joint ventures are arrangements where the Group has joint control and rights to the net assets of the entity.

The Group's investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased (or decreased) each year by the Group's share 
of the post acquisition profit/(loss). The Group ceases to recognise its share of the losses of equity accounted associates when its share of the net 
assets and amounts due from the entity have been written off in full, unless it has a contractual or constructive obligation to make good its share 
of the losses. In some cases, investments in these entities may be held at fair value through profit or loss, for example, those held by private 
equity businesses.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 357

38 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
There are no individually significant investments in joint ventures or associates held by Barclays.

2016 2015
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m

Equity accounted 321 363 684 217 356 573
Held at fair value through profit or loss – 484 484 77 475 552
Total 321 847 1,168 294 831 1,125

Summarised financial information for the Group's equity accounted associates and joint ventures is set out below. The amounts shown are the net 
income of the investees, not just the Group's share for the year ended 31 December 2016, with the exception of certain undertakings for which the 
amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.

Associates Joint ventures
2016 2015 2016 2015

£m £m £m £m

Profit from continuing operations 33 5 64 73
Other comprehensive expense – – 19 (24)
Total comprehensive income from continuing operations 33 5 83 49

Unrecognised shares of the losses of individually immaterial associates and joint ventures were £nil (2015: £nil).

The Group's associates and joint ventures are subject to statutory requirements such that they cannot make remittances of dividends or make loan 
repayments to Barclays PLC without agreement from the external parties. 

The Group's share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures comprised unutilised credit facilities provided to customers 
of £1,755m (2015: £1,450m). In addition, the Group has made commitments to finance or otherwise provide resources to its joint ventures and 
associates of £263m (2015: £177m).

39 Securitisations

Accounting for securitisations
The Group uses securitisations as a source of finance and a means of risk transfer. Such transactions generally result in the transfer of contractual 
cash flows from portfolios of financial assets to holders of issued debt securities.

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the 
debt securities issued in the transaction; lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Group's continuing involvement in 
those assets or result in full derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created 
or retained in the transfer. Full derecognition occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial 
assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party 
without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment 
risk and interest rate risk.

In the course of its normal banking activities, the Group makes transfers of financial assets, either legally (where legal rights to the cash flows from 
the asset are passed to the counterparty) or beneficially (where the Group retains the rights to the cash flows but assumes a responsibility to 
transfer them to the counterparty). Depending on the nature of the transaction, this may result in derecognition of the assets in their entirety, partial 
derecognition or no derecognition of the assets subject to the transfer. 

A summary of the main transactions, and the assets and liabilities and the financial risks arising from these transactions, is set out below:

Transfers of financial assets that do not result in derecognition
Securitisations
The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances. 

In these transactions, the assets, interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special 
purpose entity, which then issues interest bearing debt securities to third party investors. 

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the 
debt securities issued in the transaction. Partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Group's continuing involvement in those 
assets can also occur or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or 
retained in the transfer. 



Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
358 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation

39 Securitisations continued
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets that have not resulted in full derecognition, together with the associated 
liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet:

2016 2015
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities

Carrying
amount

£m
Fair Value

£m

Carrying
amount 

£m
Fair Value

£m

Carrying
amount 

£m
Fair Value

£m

Carrying
amount 

£m
Fair Value

£m

Loans and advances to customers
Residential mortgage loans 125 120 (107) (107) 376 362 (168) (170)
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 5,094 5,084 (4,926) (4,931) 5,433 5,472 (4,604) (4,606)
Corporate loansa – – – – 8 8 (8) (8)
Total 5,219 5,204 (5,033) (5,038) 5,817 5,842 (4,780) (4,784)
Loans and advances to customers
Retained interests in corporate loansa – – – – 42 42 n/a n/a

Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have 
been retained by the Group.

The relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the securitised 
assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes, although the contractual terms of their notes may be 
different to the maturity and interest of the transferred assets.

Retained interests in transfers of financial assets that resulted in partial derecognition are securities which represent a continuing exposure  
to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets. For the Group only, the carrying amount of the loans before transfer was  
£nil (2015: £78m). The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the 
portion derecognised and the portion retained.

For transfers of assets in relation to repurchase agreements, see Note 22 Reverse repurchase  and repurchase agreements including other similar  
lending and borrowing and Note 40 Assets pledged.

Continuing involvement in financial assets that have been derecognised
In some cases, the Group may have transferred a financial asset in its entirety but may have continuing involvement in it. This arises in asset 
securitisations where loans and asset backed securities were derecognised as a result of the Group's continuing involvement, mainly within 
Non-Core, with CLOs, CDOs, RMBS and CMBS. Continuing involvement largely arises from providing financing into these structures in the form  
of retained notes, which do not bear first losses. 

The table below shows the potential financial implications of such continuing involvement:

Type of transfer

Continuing involvement as at
31 December 2016

Gain/(loss) from continuing 
involvement

Carrying
amount

£m
Fair value

£m

Maximum
exposure

to loss
£m

For the year
ended 31

December
2016

£m

 Cumulative
to 31 

December
2016

£m

CLO and other assets 10 10 10 – (3)
US sub-prime and Alt-A – – – – (95)
Total 10 10 10 – (98)

Type of transfer

Continuing involvement as at 
31 December 2015

Gain/(loss) from continuing 
involvement

Carrying
amount

£m
Fair value

£m

Maximum
exposure 

to loss
£m

For the year
ended 31

December
2015

£m

 Cumulative
to 31

December
2015

£m

CLO and other assets 686 684 686 7 (36)
US sub-prime and Alt-A 38 37 38 – (426)
Total 724 721 724 7 (462)

Note
a  Corporate loans and retained interest in corporate loans balances as at December 2015 were attributable to BAGL which is classified as held for sale in 2016.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 359

39 Securitisations continued
Assets which represent the Group's continuing involvement in derecognised assets are recorded in the following line items: 

Type of transfer

Loans and
advances

£m

Trading
portfolio

assets
£m

Total
£m

As at 31 December 2016
CLO and other assets – 10 10
US sub-prime and Alt-A – – –
Total – 10 10
As at 31 December 2015
CLO and other assets 327 359 686
US sub-prime and Alt-A 38 – 38
Total 365 359 724

40 Assets pledged
Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security 
deposits relating to derivatives. Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 215, other than 
those held in commercial paper conduits. In these transactions, Barclays will be required to step in to provide financing itself under a liquidity facility 
if the vehicle cannot access the commercial paper market. The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as 
security against these liabilities:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Trading portfolio assets 51,241 49,308
Financial assets at fair value 3,195 2,534
Loans and advances to customers 30,414 51,038
Cash collateral 68,797 62,599
Financial Investments 13,053 11,666
Non current assets held for sale 117 1,930
Assets pledged 166,817 179,075

Barclays has an additional £14bn (2015: £13bn) of loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that can readily be used to  
raise additional secured funding and are available to support future issuance. 

Collateral held as security for assets
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or re-pledge 
the collateral held. The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and re-pledged to others was as follows:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 466,975 308,162
Of which fair value of securities re-pledged/transferred to others 405,582 266,015

The full disclosure as per IFRS 7 has been included in collateral and other credit enhancements (see pages 167 to 168).

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
360 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters

41 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration 
Related party transactions
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in 
making financial or operational decisions, or one other party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the 
Group's pension schemes.

Subsidiaries
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions. Where these are eliminated on 
consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group Financial Statements. Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC  
are fully disclosed in Barclays PLC's balance sheet and income statement. A list of the Group's principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 36.

Associates, joint ventures and other entities
The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds (principally the UK Retirement Fund) and to entities 
under common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well  
as other services. Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes. The Group also 
provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies, which are not individually material. All of these 
transactions are conducted on the same terms as third-party transactions. Summarised financial information for the Group's investments in 
associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 38.

Amounts included in the Group's financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:

Associates
£m

Joint 
ventures

£m

Pension 
funds, unit 
trusts and

investment
funds

£m
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2016
Income (20) 7 4
Impairment (13) – –
Total assets 72 2,244 –
Total liabilities 94 95 260
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2015
Income (19) 40 4
Impairment (4) (2) –
Total assets 36 1,578 –
Total liabilities 158 133 184
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2014
Income (5) 9 4
Impairment – (1) –
Total assets 130 1,558 –
Total liabilities 264 188 149

Guarantees, pledges or commitments given in respect of these transactions in the year were £940m (2015: £881m) predominantly relating to joint 
ventures. No guarantees, pledges or commitments were received in the year. Derivatives transacted on behalf of the pensions funds, unit trusts and 
investment funds were £3m (2015: £13m).

Key Management Personnel
The Group's Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.  
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities  
of Barclays PLC (directly or indirectly) and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the  
Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units and functions.

There were no material related party transactions with entities under common directorship where a Director or other member of Key Management 
Personnel (or any connected person) is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel (or any connected person) of Barclays.

The notes included in this section focuses on related party transactions, Auditors' remuneration and directors' remuneration.  
Related parties include any subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, entities under common directorships and Key Management Personnel. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 361

41 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration continued
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them. Transactions during the 
year and the balances outstanding were as follows:

Loans outstanding
2016

£m
2015

£m

As at 1 January 9.8 11.4
Loans issued during the year 0.6 1.1
Loan repayments during the year/change of key management personnel (1.2) (2.7)
As at 31 December 9.2 9.8

No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel (or any connected 
person).

Deposits outstanding
2016

£m
2015

£m

As at 1 January 116.5 103.0
Deposits received during the year 18.9 44.8
Deposits repaid during the year/change of key management personnel (128.1) (31.3)
As at 31 December 7.3 116.5

Total commitments outstanding
Total commitments outstanding refers to the total of any undrawn amounts on credit cards and/or overdraft facilities provided to Key Management 
Personnel. Total commitments outstanding as at 31 December 2016 were £0.2m (2015: £0.5m).

All loans to Directors and other Key Management Personnel (and persons connected to them), (a) were made in the ordinary course of business, (b) 
were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions 
with other persons and (c) did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.

Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel
Total remuneration awarded to Directors and other Key Management Personnel below represents the awards made to individuals that have been 
approved by the Board Remuneration Committee as part of the latest remuneration decisions, and is consistent with the approach adopted for 
disclosures set out on pages 99 to 133. Costs recognised in the income statement reflect the accounting charge for the year and are included  
within operating expenses. The difference between the values awarded and the recognised income statement charge principally relates to the 
recognition of deferred costs for prior year awards. Figures are provided for the period that individuals met the definition of Directors and other  
Key Management Personnel.

2016
£m

2015
£m

Salaries and other short-term benefits 31.9 31.3
Pension costs 0.2 0.3
Other long-term benefits 11.0 4.7
Share-based payments 21.9 11.0
Employer social security charges on emoluments 6.2 5.2
Costs recognised for accounting purposes 71.2 52.5
Employer social security charges on emoluments (6.2) (5.2)
Other long-term benefits – difference between awards granted and costs recognised (2.5) 2.5
Share-based payments – difference between awards granted and costs recognised (8.9) (2.3)
Total remuneration awarded 53.6 47.5

Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006
The following information regarding Directors is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006:

2016
£m

2015
£m

Aggregate emolumentsa 8.1 7.0
Amounts paid under LTIPsb – 2.2

8.1 9.2

There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors (2015: £nil). There were no notional pension 
contributions to defined contribution schemes.

As at 31 December 2016, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme (2015: nil).

Notes
a The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2016 year. In addition, a deferred share award for 2016 will be made to James E Staley and Tushar Morzaria which  

will only vest subject to meeting certain conditions. The total of the deferred share awards is £1.4m for 2016 (£0.7m for 2015).
b The figure of nil is shown for 2016 in “Amounts paid under LTIP's” because neither executive Director held an LTIP award that was released in 2016. The LTIP amount in the  

single total figure table for executive Directors' 2016 remuneration in the Directors' Remuneration report relates to the award that is scheduled to be released in 2017 in respect  
of the 2014-2016 LTIP cycle.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
362 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters

41 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration continued
Directors' and Officers' shareholdings and options
The beneficial ownership of ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 24 persons) at  
31 December 2016 amounted to 11,464,580 (2015: 10,586,812) ordinary shares of 25p each (0.07% of the ordinary share capital outstanding).

At 31 December 2016, executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 13 persons) held options to purchase a total of 22,527  
(2015: 17,206) Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 120p to 178p under Sharesave.

Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors
In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, the total amount of advances and credits made available in 2016 to persons who  
served as Directors during the year was £0.2m (2015: £0.3m). The total value of guarantees entered into on behalf of Directors during 2016 was  
£nil (2015:£nil).

42 Auditors' remuneration
Auditors' remuneration is included within consultancy, legal and professional fees in administration and general expenses and comprises:

Audit
£m

Audit 
related

£m

Taxation 
services

£m

Other 
services

£m
Total

£m
2016
Audit of the Group's annual accounts 14 – – – 14
Other services:
Fees payable for the Company's associatesa 27 – – – 27
Other services suppliedb – 3 – – 3
Other services relating to taxation
– compliance services – – – – –
– advisory servicesc – – – – –
Other – 1 – 4 5
Total Auditors' remuneration 41 4 – 4 49

2015
Audit of the Group's annual accounts 13 – – – 13
Other services:
Fees payable for the Company's associatesa 21 – – – 21
Other services suppliedb – 3 – – 3
Other services relating to taxation
– compliance services – – 1 – 1
– advisory servicesc – – – – –
Other – 4 – 1 5
Total Auditors' remuneration 34 7 1 1 43

2014
Audit of the Group's annual accounts 11 – – – 11
Other services:
Fees payable for the Company's associatesa 24 – – – 24
Other services suppliedb – 4 – – 4
Other services relating to taxation
– compliance services – – 1 – 1
– advisory servicesc – – – – –
Other – 3 – 1 4
Total Auditors' remuneration 35 7 1 1 44

The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates, of which the fees paid in relation to 
discontinued operations were £12m (2015: £10m, 2014: £10m).

Fees paid to other auditors not associated with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in respect of the audit of discontinued operations were £5m (2015: £4m, 
2014: £4m). 

43 Financial risks, liquidity and capital management 
To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, and to reduce duplication, disclosures required 
under IFRS relating to financial risks and capital resources have been included within the Risk management and governance section as follows:
■■ Credit risk, on pages 149 to 150;
■■ Market risk, on page 151;
■■ Capital resources, on pages 154 to 155; and
■■ Liquidity risk, on pages 153 to 154. 

Notes
a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries both inside and outside UK and fees for the work performed by associates of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company. 
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the  

UK listing authority. 
c Includes consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 363

44 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities

Accounting for non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities
The group applies IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.

Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than continuing use. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present 
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary and the sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held 
for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.

On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its intention to reduce the Group's 62.3% interest in BAGL. This reduction is intended to be to a level which will 
permit deconsolidation from an accounting and regulatory perspective, for which approval was granted by shareholders at the Group's general meeting 
held on 28 April 2016. On 5 May 2016 Barclays sold 12.2% of the Group's interest in BAGL resulting in a transfer to non-controlling interests of £601m. 
Following this sale, Barclays' interest represents 50.1% of BAGL's share capital. The BAGL disposal group includes all assets and liabilities of BAGL and its 
subsidiaries as well as Group balances associated with BAGL and expected contributions that will form part of the sale. 

No impairment for BAGL has been recognised under IFRS 5 as at 31 December 2016. Impairment under IFRS 5 is calculated as the difference 
between fair value less disposal costs and the carrying value of the disposal group. The fair value is determined by reference to the quoted market 
price for BAGL and the foreign exchange rate for ZAR/GBP as at 31 December 2016, less the expected contributions. The fair value less disposal 
costs and the expected contribution exceeds the net asset value as at 31 December 2016.

Barclays continues to explore a sale through the disposal of its shares in BAGL during the course of 2017. 

Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale
BAGL
2016

£m

Other
2016

£m

Total
2016

£m

Total
2015

£m
Cash and balances at central banks 2,689 241 2,930 21
Items in the course of collection from other banks 549 21 570 24
Trading portfolio assets 3,044 40 3,084 –
Financial assets designated at fair value 5,546 1,438 6,984 696
Derivative financial instruments 1,992 – 1,992 –
Financial investments 4,995 2,742 7,737 1,230
Loans and advances to banks 1,184 482 1,666 74
Loans and advances to customers 41,793 1,711 43,504 5,513
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 637 59 696 47
Investments in associates and joint ventures 63 24 87 10
Property, plant and equipment 902 52 954 128
Goodwill 965 32 997 –
Intangible assets 554 16 570 43
Current and deferred tax assets 124 25 149 22
Retirement benefit assets 33 – 33 –
Total 65,070 6,883 71,953 7,808
Balance of impairment unallocated under IFRS 5 (499) (499) (444)
Total assets classified as held for sale 65,070 6,384 71,454 7,364

Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale
BAGL
2016

£m

Other
2016

£m

Total
2016

£m

Total
2015

£m

Deposits from banks 2,113 36 2,149 –
Items in the course of collection due to banks 350 23 373 74
Customer accounts 39,331 3,100 42,431 4,000
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 597 – 597 –
Trading portfolio liabilities 388 – 388 –
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 3,748 3,577 7,325 346
Derivative financial instruments 1,610 1 1,611 3
Debt securities in issue 7,997 – 7,997 1,474
Subordinated liabilities 934 – 934 –
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 1,061 119 1,180 39
Provisions 52 51 103 34
Current and deferred tax liabilities 154 8 162 (6)
Retirement benefit liabilities 26 16 42 33
Total liabilities classified as held for sale 58,361 6,931 65,292 5,997

Net assets/(liabilities) classified as held for salea 6,709 (547) 6,162 1,367
Expected BAGL separation payments and costsb,c 866 – 866 –
Disposal group post contribution 7,575 (547) 7,028 1,367

 Notes
a  The carrying value of the disposal group is stated after the elimination of internal balances between Barclays and BAGL of £595m. Internal balances have been considered in 

determining the carrying value of BAGL (of £7.3bn before the planned contributions in respect of BAGL) for the purposes of measuring the disposal group at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.

b  In December 2016, Barclays finalised proposals regarding planned contributions to the BAGL group relating to the reimbursement of certain expenses as well as contributions for 
investment to support separation activities. The cash and cash equivalents to make these planned contributions is included within the perimeter of the disposal group, also for the 
purposes of measuring the disposal group at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The planned contributions are reported within Cash and balances at 
central banks in the Group's consolidated balance sheet.

c  In December 2016, Barclays reimbursed BAGL for expenses incurred for an amount of £28m. This amount is excluded from the proposed overall potential reimbursement and 
contribution figure of £866m.

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
364 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters

44 Assets included in disposal groups held for sale and associated liabilities continued
The BAGL disposal group meets the requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation. As such, the results, which have been presented  
as the profit after tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued operation on the face of the Group income statement, are analysed 
in the income statement below.

BAGL group income statement

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m

Net interest income 2,169 1,950
Net fee and commission income 1,072 1,033
Net trading income 281 197
Net investment income 45 41
Other income 179 193
Total income 3,746 3,414
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (445) (353)
Net operating income 3,301 3,061
Staff costs (1,186) (1,107)
Administration and general expenses (653) (545)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (513) (442)
Amortisation of intangible assets (58) (47)
Operating expenses (2,410) (2,141)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 6 7
Profit before tax 897 927
Taxation (306) (301)
Profit after tax 591 626

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 189 302
Non-controlling interests 402 324
Profit after tax 591 626

Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m

Available for sale assets (9) (22)
Currency translation reserves 1,451 (1,223)
Cash flow hedge reserves 89 (101)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax from discontinued operations 1,531 (1,346)

The cash flows attributed to the discontinued operations are as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2016

£m
2015

£m

Net cash flows from operating activities 1,164 794
Net cash flows from investing activities (691) (1,883)
Net cash flows from financing activities (105) 133
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 37 (865)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 405 (1,821)

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 365

44 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities continued
Other held for sale assets
Sale of the French retail business
The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in the French retail business with assets of £4bn. An impairment of £456m has been 
recognised in expectation of the loss on sale, with the sale expected to be completed in 2017.

Sale of the Egypt banking business
The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in Barclays Bank Egypt, with assets of £1bn.  Subject to regulatory approvals, the sale is 
expected to be completed in H1 2017.

Sale of Barclays Vida Y Pensiones
The majority of the disposal group have been sold during 2016. The sale of the remaining Spanish Life Insurance business, with assets of £657m, 
is expected to complete in 2017.

Sale of the Zimbabwe business
The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in the Zimbabwe business, with assets of £362m. The sale is expected to be completed 
in Q4 2017.

Sale of other businesses
Other disposals include £379m of assets, mainly comprised of the Italian business, with assets of £258m. The sale is expected to be completed in 
2017. The remaining businesses mainly comprise of the Irish Insurance business, UK Trust and Vocalink, all of which are expected to be completed 
in 2017.

During the year, a number of disposal groups of held for sale assets have been disposed of. The sale of the Asia Wealth business took place in 
November 2016. A gain on sale of £164m has been recognised in the income statement within (loss)/profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures. The sales of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index Solutions Ltd in August 2016, the Spanish and Portuguese credit card businesses 
in November 2016, Italian insurance business in June 2016, Italian retail banking in August 2016, Portuguese retail and insurance businesses in April 
2016, the Offshore Trust business in January 2016, the sale of the designated Market Maker business in April 2016 and part of the Spanish Insurance 
business in November 2016 also took place this year.

45 Barclays PLC (the Parent Company)
Other income
Other income of £334m (2015: £227m) includes £457m (2015: £345m) of income received from gross coupon payments on Barclays Bank PLC 
issued AT1 securities.

Non-Current Assets and Liabilities
Investment in subsidiaries
The investment in subsidiary of £36,553m (2015: £35,303m) represents investments made in Barclays Bank PLC, including £6,486m (2015: 
£5,350m) of AT1 securities. The increase of £1,250m during the year was mainly driven by a $1.5bn AT1 issuance during the third quarter.

Loans and advances to subsidiaries, subordinated liabilities and debt securities in issue
During the period, Barclays PLC issued $2.1bn of Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes included within the subordinated liabilities balance of £3,789m 
(2015: £1,766m), $6.7bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes, Yen 20bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes, €2.7bn Fixed and Floating Rate Senior Notes, £1.3bn of 
Fixed Rate Senior Notes and AUD 0.2bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes included within the debt securities in issue balance of £16,893m (2015: £6,224m). 
The proceeds raised through these transactions were used to invest in subsidiaries of Barclays Bank PLC accounted for as loans and advances to 
subsidiaries of £19,421m (2015: £7,990m).

Barclays PLC retains the discretion to manage the nature of its internal investments in subsidiaries according to their regulatory and business needs. 
As we implement our structural reform programme, Barclays PLC will invest capital and funding to Barclays Bank PLC and other group subsidiaries 
such as the Group Service Company, the US IHC and the UK ring-fenced bank.

Financial investments
The financial investment assets relate to loans made to subsidiaries of the Group. These instruments include a feature that allows for the loan to be 
written down in whole or in part by the borrower only in the event that the liabilities of the subsidiary would otherwise exceed its assets.

Derivative financial instrument
The derivative financial instrument of £268m (2015: £210m) held by the Parent Company represents Barclays PLC's right to receive a Capital Note for 
no additional consideration, in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional 
statement) falls below 7% at which point the notes are automatically assigned by the holders to Barclays PLC.

Total equity
Called up share capital and share premium of Barclays PLC was £21,842m (2015: £21,586m). Other equity instruments of £6,453m (2015: £5,321m) 
comprises of AT1 securities. For further details please refer to Note 31 Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity.



Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
366 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

46 Related undertakings
The Group's corporate structure consists of a number of related undertakings, comprising subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and significant other 
interests. A full list of these undertakings, the country of incorporation and the ownership of each share class is set out below. The information is 
provided as at 31 December 2016. 

The entities are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated. The profits earned by the activities of these entities are in some cases 
taxed in countries other than the country of incorporation. Barclays' 2016 Country Snapshot provides details of where the Group carries on its 
business, where its profits are subject to tax and the taxes it pays in each country it operates in.

Wholly owned subsidiaries 
Unless otherwise stated the undertakings below are wholly owned and consolidated by Barclays and the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary 
or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries. 
Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Aequor Investments Limited
Ardencroft Investments Limited
B D & B Investments Limited
B.P.B. (Holdings) Limited
Barafor Limited
Barclay Leasing Limited
Barclays (Security Realisation) Limited
Barclays Aegis Trust D
Barclays Africa Group Holdings Limited J, K
Barclays Aldersgate Investments Limited
Barclays Asset Management Limited
Barclays Bank PLC A, F, I
Barclays BCL FI Trust D
Barclays Bedivere Trust D
Barclays BR Investments Trust D
Barclays Cantal Investments Trust D
Barclays Capital Asia Holdings Limited
Barclays Capital Finance Limited
Barclays Capital Japan Securities Holdings Limited
Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.à.r.l. Trust D
Barclays Capital Margin Financing Limited
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.2) Limited
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.3) Limited
Barclays Capital Nominees Limited
Barclays Capital Principal Investments Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Client Nominee Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Limited F, I
Barclays Capital Services Limited A
Barclays CCP Funding LLP B
Barclays Converted Investments (No.2) Limited
Barclays Converted Investments Limited
Barclays Direct Investing Nominees Limited
Barclays Directors Limited
Barclays Equity Index Investments Bare Trust D
Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees Limited
Barclays Fiduciary Services (UK) Limited
Barclays Financial Planning Nominee Company Limited
Barclays Funds Investments Limited
Barclays Global Shareplans Nominee Limited
Barclays Group Holdings Limited
Barclays Group Operations Limited
Barclays Industrial Development Limited
Barclays Industrial Investments Limited
Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited
Barclays Investment Management Limited
Barclays Lamorak Trust D
Barclays Leasing (No.9) Limited 
Barclays Long Island Limited
Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings Trust D
Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings Trust D
Barclays Marlist Limited
Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited
Barclays Mercantile Limited 
Barclays Nominees (Branches) Limited
Barclays Nominees (George Yard) Limited
Barclays Nominees (K.W.S.) Limited
Barclays Nominees (Monument) Limited
Barclays Nominees (Provincial) Limited
Barclays Pelleas Trust D
Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited
Barclays Private Bank

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Barclays Private Banking Services Limited
Barclays Private Trust
Barclays SAMS Limited
Barclays Services (Japan) Limited
Barclays Sharedealing
Barclays Shea Limited
Barclays Singapore Global Shareplans Nominee Limited
Barclays Stockbrokers (Holdings) Limited
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited
Barclays Trust Company Limited I, P
Barclays UK and Europe PLC
Barclays Unquoted Investments Limited
Barclays Unquoted Property Investments Limited
Barclays USD Funding LLP B
Barclays Wealth Nominees Limited
Barclayshare Nominees Limited
Barcosec Limited
Barley Investments Limited I, J, K
Barometers Limited
Barsec Nominees Limited
BB Client Nominees Limited 
BCLI GP Trust D
BMBF (Bluewater Investments) Limited
BMBF (No.12) Limited
BMBF (No.21) Limited
BMBF (No.24) Limited
BMBF (No.3) Limited
BMBF (No.6) Limited
BMBF (No.9) Limited
BMBF USD NO 1 Limited
BMI (No.9) Limited
BNRI ENG 2013 Limited Partnership B
BNRI ENG 2014 Limited Partnership B
BNRI ENG GP LLP B
BNRI England 2010 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2011 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2012 Limited Partnership B
Boudeuse Limited 
Capel Cure Sharp Limited
Carnegie Holdings Limited I, J, K
Chapelcrest Investments Limited
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited
Cobalt Investments Limited
Condor No.1 Limited Partnership B
Condor No.2 Limited Partnership B
CP Flower Guaranteeco (UK) Limited E
CP Propco 1 Limited
CP Propco 2 Limited
CP Topco Limited J, K
CPIA England 2008 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England 2009 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
Denham Investments Limited
DMW Realty Limited
Durlacher Nominees Limited
Eagle Financial and Leasing Services (UK) Limited
Equity Value Investments Limited Liability Partnership B
Equity Value Investments No.1 Limited
Equity Value Investments No.2 Limited F, I
Exshelfco (DZBC)
Finpart Nominees Limited
FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC
Fitzroy Finance Limited Z

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 367

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP continued
Foltus Investments Limited
Gerrard (OMH) Limited
Gerrard Financial Planning Limited
Gerrard Investment Management Limited
Gerrard Management Services Limited
Gerrard Nominees Limited
Global Dynasty Natural Resource Private Equity  
Limited Partnership B
Globe Nominees Limited
GM Computers Limited
Greig Middleton Holdings Limited
Greig Middleton Nominees Limited
Hawkins Funding Limited
Heraldglen Limited G, H, I
Investors In Infrastructure Limited
J.V. Estates Limited
Keepier Investments
Kirsche Investments Limited
Lindley Developments Limited U
Lombard Street Nominees Limited
Long Island Assets Limited
Maloney Investments Limited
Menlo Investments Limited
Mercantile Credit Company Limited
Mercantile Leasing Company (No.132) Limited
MK Opportunities LP B
Murray House Investment Management Limited
Naxos Investments Limited
North Colonnade Investments Limited
Northwharf Investments Limited I, X
Northwharf Nominees Limited
PIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
Real Estate Participation Management Limited
Real Estate Participation Services Limited
Relative Value Investments UK Limited Liability Partnership B
Relative Value Trading Limited
Roder Investments No. 1 Limited I, Y 
Roder Investments No. 2 Limited I, Y
Ruthenium Investments Limited 
RVT CLO Investments LLP B
Scotlife Home Loans (No.3) Limited
Sharelink Nominees Limited
Solution Personal Finance Limited
Surety Trust Limited
Swan Lane Investments Limited F, I
US Real Estate Holdings No.1 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No. 2 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.3 Limited
W.D. Pension Fund Limited
Wedd Jefferson (Nominees) Limited
Westferry Investments Limited
Woolwich Assured Homes Limited
Woolwich Homes (1987) Limited E
Woolwich Homes Limited
Woolwich Limited
Woolwich Plan Managers Limited
Woolwich Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trustee Limited
Woolwich Surveying Services Limited
Zeban Nominees Limited
Barclays Financial Planning (Entered Liquidation 26 January 2017)
– Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, EC4A 3TR
54 Lombard Street Investments (In Liquidation)
Barclays Global Investors Finance Limited (in Liquidation)
Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited (in Liquidation) J, K
Barclays Mercantile Highland Finance Limited (in Liquidation)
Barclays Physical Trading Limited (In Liquidation)
Eldfell Investments Limited (in Liquidation)
Fair and Square Limited (in Liquidation)
Mercers Debt Collections Limited (In Liquidation)
Pendle Shipping Limited (In Liquidation)
Reflex Nominees Limited (In Liquidation)
– 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB
Barclays Bayard Investments Trust D

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB continued
BBR Holdings Trust D
Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg Trust D
Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings Trust D
Barclays Luxembourg Finance Index Trust D
CPIA Canada Holdings B
Leonis Investments LLP B
Preferred Liquidity Limited Partnership B
– Aurora Building, 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS
Barclays SLCSM (No.1) Limited (In Liquidation)
R.C. Grieg Nominees Limited
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ
BNRI PIA Scot GP Limited
BNRI Scots GP, LLP B
Pecan Aggregator LP B
– Logic House, Waterfront Business Park, Fleet Road, GU1 3SB
The Logic Group Holdings Limited J
The Logic Group Enterprises Limited
 
Argentina
– 855 Leandro N.Alem Avenue, 8th Floor, Buenos Aires
Compañía Sudamerica S.A.
– Marval, O'Farrell & Mairal, Av. Leandro N. Alem 882, Buenos Aires, 
C1001AAQ
Compañia Regional del Sur S.A.
 
Brazil
– Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, No. 4.440, 12th Floor, Bairro Itaim Bibi, 
Sao Paulo, CEP, 04538-132
Banco Barclays S.A. 
 
Canada
– 333 Bay Street, Suite 4910, Toronto ON M5H 2R2
Barclays Capital Canada Inc
– Stikeman Elliott LLP, 199 Bay Street, 5300 Commerce Court West, 
Toronto ON M5L 1B9
Barclays Corporation Limited

Cayman Islands
– Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, 
South Church Street, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104
Alymere Investments Limited G, H, I
Alymere Investments Two Limited (In Liquidation)
Analytical Trade UK Limited
Aquitaine Investments Limited (In Liquidation)
Barclays Capital (Cayman) Limited
Braven Investments No.1 Limited
Capton Investments Limited
Claudas Investments Limited G, H, I
Claudas Investments Two Limited
CPIA Investments No.1 Limited V
CPIA Investments No.2 Limited F, I
Cureton Investments No. 1 Limited (In Liquidation)
Cuth Investments Limited F, I, T
Furbridge Investments Limited
Hamar Investments Limited
Hurley Investments No.1 Limited
Iris Investments 1 Limited G, H, I
Mintaka Investments No. 4 Limited
OGP Leasing Limited
Pelleas Investments Limited
Pelleas Investments Two Limited
Pippin Island Investments Limited
Razzoli Investments Limited F, I
RVH Limited F, I
Zanonne Investments Limited (In Liquidation)
Zumboorok Investments Limited
– PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102
Blaytell Limited
Coskwo Limited
Godler Limited
Harflane Limited
Hentock Limited
Hollygrice Limited
Pilkbull Limited

46 Related undertakings continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
368 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102 continued
Strickyard Limited
Winhall Limited
– 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9005
Calthorpe Investments Limited
Gallen Investments Limited
JV Assets Limited L
Palomino Limited Z
Raglan Investments Limited 
Wessex Investments Limited
– Walkers Corporate Limited, Cayman Corporate Centre,  
27 Hospital Road, George Town, KY1 – 9008
Long Island Holding B Limited
 
China
– Room 213, Building 1, No. 1000 Chenhui Road,  
Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai
Barclays Technology Centre (Shanghai) Company Limited
 
Egypt
– Star Capital AI Tower, City Stars Project, 2 Ali Rashed Street,  
Nasr City, Cairo
Barclays Bank Egypt SAE
 
France
– 183 avenue Daumesnil, Paris, 75012
Barclays Courtage SAS
Barclays Diversification
Barclays Patrimoine S.C.S.
Barclays Vie SA
BBAIL SAS
– 32 avenue George V, Paris, 75008
Barclays France SA
Barclays Wealth Managers France SA
 
Germany
– Bockenheimer Landstrasse 38-40, D-60323 Frankfurt Am Main
Barclays Capital Effekten GmbH
Sulm Investments GmbH (In Liquidation)
– c/o SFM Deutschland GmbH, Gruneburgweg 58-62, 60322,  
Frankfurt am Main
Baubecon Holding 1 GmbH (In Liquidation)
Opal 110. GmbH (In Liquidation)
– Gasstrasse 4c, 22761, Hamburg, Germany
Baban Mantel AG (In Liquidation)
 
Gibraltar
– Suite 1, Burns House, 19 Town Range
Frankland Properties Limited
Norfolk LP B
Ringmer Properties Limited
Saveway Properties Limited
Stowmarket Investments Limited
Townmead Properties Limited
Trefield Holdings Limited
 
Guernsey
– P.O. Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT
Barclays Insurance Guernsey PCC Limited Q 
– PO BOX 41, Floor 2, Le Marchant House, Le Truchot, St Peter Port, 
GY1 3BE
Barclays Nominees (Guernsey) Limited
 
Hong Kong
– 42nd floor Citibank Tower, Citibank Plaza, 3 Garden Road
Barclays Bank (Hong Kong Nominees) Limited (In Liquidation)
Barclays Capital Asia Nominees Limited (In Liquidation)
– Level 41, Cheung Kong Center, 2 Queen's Road Central
Barclays Asia Limited
Barclays Capital Asia Limited
 
India
– 208 Ceejay House, Shivsagar Estate, Dr A Beasant Road, Worli, 
Mumbai, 400 018
Barclays Securities (India) Private Limited
Barclays Wealth Trustees (India) Private Limited

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– 67, Maker Tower ‘F' 6th Floor, Cuffe Parade, Mumbai, 400 005
Barclays Holdings India Private Limited (In Liquidation)
– DLF IT Park 8th Floor, Building 9A and B, 1/124 Shivaji Gardens, 
Mount Poonamallee Road, Manapakkam, Chennai, 600089
Barclays Shared Services Private Limited
– Ground to Fourth Floor, Wing 3 – Cluster A, Eon Free Zone, MIDC 
Knowledge Park, Pune, 411014
Barclays Technology Centre India Private Limited
– Level 10, Block B6, Nirlon Knowledge Park, Off Western Express 
Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai, 40063
Barclays Investments & Loans (India) Limited F, I
 
Indonesia
– Barclays House, 12th Floor, Jl. Jend Sudirman Kav. 22-23, Jakarta, 
12920
PT Bank Barclays Indonesia (In Liquidation)
– Plaza Lippo, 10th Floor, Jalan Jend, Sudirman Kav 25, Jakarta, 12920
PT Bhadra Buana Persada (In Liquidation)
 
Ireland
– Two Park Place, Hatch Street, Dublin 2
Barclaycard International Payments Limited
Barclays Assurance (Dublin) Designated Activity Company
Barclays Bank Ireland Public Limited Company
Barclays Insurance (Dublin) Designated Activity Company
Barclays Ireland Nominees Limited (In Liquidation)
 
Isle of Man
– Barclays House, Victoria Street, Douglas, IM1 2LE
Barclays Nominees (Manx) Limited
Barclays Portfolio (IoM GP) No.2 Limited
Barclays Private Clients International Limited J, K
– 2nd Floor, St Georges Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE
Barclays Holdings (Isle of Man) Limited
 
Italy
– Milano, Via della Moscova 18
Barclays Private Equity S.p.A. (In Liquidation)
 
Japan
– 10-1, Roppongi 6-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo
Barclays Funds and Advisory Japan Limited
Barclays Securities Japan Limited
Barclays Wealth Services Limited
 
Jersey
– Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, St. Helier, JE2 3QA
CP Newco 1 Limited
CP Newco 2 Limited J, K
CP Newco 3 Limited
– La Motte Chambers, St Helier, JE1 1BJ
Barclays Services Jersey Limited
– 39-41 Broad Street, St Helier, JE2 3RR
Barclays Wealth Management Jersey Limited
BIFML PTC Limited
– 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT
Barclays Index Finance Trust S
– Lime Grove House, Green Street, St Helier, JE1 2ST
Barbridge Limited
– 13 Library Place, St Helier, JE4 8NE
Barclays Nominees (Jersey) Limited
Barclaytrust Channel Islands Limited
– Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited, PO Box 207, 13-14 
Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1BD
MK Opportunities GP Ltd
 
Korea, Republic of
– A-1705 Yeouido Park Centre, 28-3 Yeouido-dong, 
Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul
Barclays Korea GP Limited
 
Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
Barclays Aegis Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Alzin Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bayard Investments S.à r.l. J, K

46 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 369

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520 continued
Barclays BCL Fixed Income S.à.r.l.
Barclays BCLI no.1 S.à r.l
Barclays BCLI no.2 S.à r.l.
Barclays Bedivere Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bordang Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays BR Holdings S.à r.l.
Barclays BR Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Cantal Investments S.à r.l. J
Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.à r.l.
Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg S.à r.l. J, K 
Barclays Claudas Investments Partnership B
Barclays Equity Index Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Lamorak Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Leto Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings S.à r.l
Barclays Luxembourg Finance S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings S.à r.l. I, AA
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings SSC B
Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Pelleas Investments Partnership B 
Barclays Pelleas Investments S.à r.l. G, I 
Barclays US Investments S.à r.l. J, K
Blossom Finance General Partnership B
– 68-70 Boulevard de la Petrusse, L-2320
Adler Toy Holding Sarl
 
Malaysia
– Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, 
Bangsar South, No.8, Jalan Kerinchi, Kuala Lumpur, 59200
Barclays Capital Markets Malaysia Sdn Bhd. (In Liquidation) F, I
 
Mauritius
– C/O Rogers Capital Corporate Services, St. Louis Business Centre,  
Cnr Desroches & St. Louis Streets, Port Louis
Barclays Capital Mauritius Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Mauritius Limited
– Fifth Floor, Ebene Esplanade, 24 Cybercity, Ebene
Barclays (H&B) Mauritius Limited
Barclays Mauritius Overseas Holdings Limited
 
Mexico
– Paseo de la Reforma 505, 41 Floor, Torre Mayor, Col.
Cuauhtemoc, CP 06500
Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A. K, M 
Barclays Capital Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. K, M 
Grupo Financiero Barclays Mexico, S.A. de C.V. K, M 
Servicios Barclays, S.A. de C.V.
 
Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, BP 339
Barclays Wealth Asset Management (Monaco) S.A.M
 
Netherlands
– Strawinskylaan 3105, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam
Barclays SLCSM Funding B.V.
– De Boelelaan 7, 1083 Hj Amsterdam
Chewdef BidCo BV. (In Liquidation)
 
Nigeria
– Southgate House, Udi Street, Osborne Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos
Barclays Group Representative Office (NIG) Limited
 
Philippines
– 21/F, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo de Roxas, Makati City, 1226
Meridian (SPV-AMC) Corporation
 
Russian Federation
– Four Winds Plaza, 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya Str, Moscow 21, 125047
Limited Liability Company Barclays Capital (In Liquidation)
 
Saudi Arabia
– 18th Floor Al Faisaliah Tower, Riyadh, 11311
Barclays Saudi Arabia (In Liquidation)

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Singapore
– 10 Marina Boulevard, #24-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Tower 2, 
018983
Barclays Bank (Singapore Nominees) Pte Ltd
Barclays Bank (South East Asia) Nominees Pte Ltd
Barclays Capital Futures (Singapore) Private Limited
Barclays Capital Holdings (Singapore) Private Limited 
Barclays Merchant Bank (Singapore) Ltd.

Spain
– Plaza De Colon 1, 28046, Madrid
Barclays Tenedora De Immuebles SL.
Barclays Vida Y Pensiones, Compania De Seguros, S.A Z
The Logic Group Enterprises S.L
 
Switzerland
– Chemin de Grange Canal 18-20, PO Box 3941, 1211, Geneva
Barclays Bank (Suisse) S.A.
BPB Holdings SA
 
Taiwan
– 11/F, 106 Xin-Yi Road, Sec. 5, Taipei 110
Barclays Capital Securities Taiwan Limited (In Liquidation)
 
Thailand
– 87, M Thai Tower All Seasons Place, 23rd Floor, Wireless Road, 
Lumpini, Phatumwan, Bangkok, 10330
Barclays Capital (Thailand) Ltd. (In Liquidation)
 
United States 
– Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center,  
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington DE 19801
Archstone Equity Holdings Inc
Barclays BWA, Inc.
Barclays Capital Commodities Corporation
Barclays Capital Derivatives Funding LLC C
Barclays Capital Energy Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Finance Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Holdings Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc.
Barclays Commercial Mortgage Securities LLC C
Barclays Delaware Holdings LLC F, I
Barclays Electronic Commerce Holdings Inc.
Barclays Financial LLC C
Barclays Group US Inc.
Barclays Investment Holdings LLC
Barclays Oversight Management Inc.
Barclays Receivables LLC C
Barclays Services Corporation
Barclays US CCP Funding LLC C
Barclays US Funding LLC C
Barclays US LLC G, I
BCAP LLC C
BNRI Acquisition No.4 LLC C
BNRI Acquisition No.5, LP B
CPIA Acquisition No.3 LLC C
CPIA Equity No. 1 Inc.
Crescent Real Estate Member LLC C
Gracechurch Services Corporation
Long Island Holding A LLC C
LTDL Holdings LLC C
Marbury Holdings LLC
Persica Holdings LLC C
Persica Lease LLC C
Persica LL LLC C
Persica Property LLC C
Protium Finance I LLC C
Protium Master Mortgage LP B
Protium REO I LP B
RB Special Assets, L.L.C. C
Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC C
Sutton Funding LLC C
TPLL LLC C
TPProperty LLC C
TPWorks LLC C

46 Related undertakings continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
370 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
– Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center,  
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington DE 19801 continued
US Secured Investments LLC C
Vail 09 LLC C
Vail Residential 09 LLC C
Vail SC LLC C
– 1201 North Market Street, P.O. Box 1347 Wilmington, DE19801
Barclays Bank Delaware F, I
Procella Investments LLC C
Procella Investments No.1 LLC C
Procella Investments No.2 LLC C 
Procella Investments No.3 LLC C
Procella Swaps LLC C
Verain Investments LLC
– 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington DE 19808
Analog Analytics Inc
Barclays Capital Equities Trading GP B
Barclays Capital Holdings Inc. G, I
Lagalla Investments LLC
Protium Master Grantor Trust D
Relative Value Holdings, LLC
– 745 Seventh Avenue, New York NY 10019
Alynore Investments Limited Partnership B
Curve Investments GP B
Preferred Liquidity, LLC J
– CT Corporation System, One Corporate Center, Floor 11, Hartford CT 
06103-3220
Barclays Capital Inc.
– c/o RL&F Service Corp, One Rodney Square, 10th Floor, Tenth and 
King Streets, Wilmington DE 19801
Analytical Trade Holdings LLC
Analytical Trade Investments LLC BB
– 100 South West Street, Wilmington DE 19801
Barclays Dryrock Funding LLC C
Wilmington Riverfront Receivables LLC J, K
– 100 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2000, Chicago IL 60606
BTXS Inc.
– 15 East North Street, Dover DE DE 19801
Barclays Services LLC C
– 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10166
HYMF, Inc.
– CT Corporation System, 225 Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, NC 27603
Barclays US GPF Inc.
– CT Corporation System, 350 North St. Paul Street, Dallas TX 75201
La Torretta Beverages LLC C
La Torretta Hospitality LLC C
La Torretta Operations LLC C
– Aon Insurance Managers (USA) Inc., 199 Water Street, New York 
NY 10038
Barclays Insurance U.S. Inc.
– Suite 1100, 50 W. Liberty St., Reno, Nev 89501
CPIA FX Investments Inc.
– 500 Forest Point Circle, Charlotte, North Carolina 28273
Equifirst Corporation (In Liquidation)
 
Zimbabwe
– 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business Park,  
Mount Pleasant, Harare
Branchcall Computers (Pvt) Limited
– 2nd Floor, Barclays House, Corner Jason Moyo
 Avenue/First Street, Harare
Afcarme Zimbabwe Holdings (Pvt) Limited

Other Related Undertakings
Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings below are consolidated and 
the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which 
are held by subsidiaries of the Group. The Group's overall ownership 
percentage is provided for each undertaking. 
Other related undertakings Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Barclays Africa Limited 50.10%
Barclaycard Funding PLC 75.00% J
Claas Finance Limited 51.00% K
PSA Credit Company Limited (in liquidation) 50.00% J, L
Barclays Covered Bond Funding LLP 50.00% B
– 1 Angel Lane, London, EC4R 3AB
Vocalink Holdings Limited 15.18% Z
– 1 Poultry, London, England, EC2R 8EJ
Igloo Regeneration (General Partner) Limited 25.00% L, Z
– 1 Robeson Way, Sharston Green Business Park, 
Manchester, M22 4SW
KDC Holdings Limited 37.41% EE, Z
– 3-5 London Road, Rainham, Kent, ME8 7RG
Trade Ideas Limited 20.00% Z
– Derby Training Centre, Ascot Drive, Derby, DE24 8GW
Develop Training Group Limited 70.01% CC, Z
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9BY
Equistone Founder Partner II L.P. 20.00% B, Z
Equistone Founder Partner III L.P. 35.00% B, Z
– Building 6 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, 
London W4 5HR
Intelligent Processing Solutions Limited 19.50% Z
– 13 Frensham Road, Sweet Briar Industrial Estate, 
Norwich, NR3 2BT
Warehouse Express Group Limited 62.88% DD, Z
– Oak House, Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, CH65 9HQ
Elan Homes Holdings Limited 59.94% J, L, Z
– 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD
Barclays Alma Mater Management Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z
– 20-22 Bedford Row, London, WC1R 4JS
Cyber Defence Alliance Limited 25.00% E, Z
– 30 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7PG
Gresham Leasing March (3) Limited 30.00% Z
– 80 New Bond Street, London, W1S 1SB
GN Tower Limited 50.00% Z
GW City Ventures Limited 50.00% K, Z
– Basepoint Business Centre, 70-72 The Havens Ransomes 
Europ, IP3 9SJ, Ipswich
Equity Estates Basingstoke Limited 25.05% J, Z
– 5th Floor, 70 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0XL
Camperdown UK Limited 50.00% J, Z
– 5 North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB
BEIF Management Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z
Imalivest LP 66.71% J, K, Z
– Blake House, Schooner Court, Crossways Business Park, 
Dartford, DA2 6QQ
Lakeview Computers Group Limited 57.83% J, Z
– Queens House, 8 Queen Street, London EC4N 1SP
BIE Topco Limited 44.80% J, Z
– No.1 Dorset Street, Southampton, Hampshire, SO15 2DP
MCC (15) GH Limited 72.25% J, Z
– 2nd Floor, 110 Cannon Street, London, EC4N 6EU
Vectorcommand Limited (in Liquidation) 30.39% J, K, Z
– 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU
Formerly H Limited (In Liquidation) 70.32% J, Z
– Countryside House, The Warley Hill Business Park, 
The Drive, Brentwood, Essex, CM13 3AT
Woolwich Countryside Limited 50.00% O, Z
– Haberfield Old Moor Road, Wennington, Lancaster, 
LA2 8PD
Full House Holdings Limited 67.43% J, Z
– 6th Floor 60 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0HR
BMC (UK) Limited 40.57% F, J, Z
– Central House, 124 High Street, Hampton Hill, Middlesex 
TW12 1NS
Rio Laranja Holdings Limited 45.00% J, Z
– 13-15 York Buildings, London, WC2N 6JU
Business Growth Fund PLC 24.18% Z

46 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 371

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
Botswana
– 5th Floor, Prime Plaza, Plot 74358, Central Business 
District, Gabarone
Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited 33.98%
– Deloitte & Touche House, Lot 50664 , Gaborone
Barclays Insurance Services (Pty) Limited 33.98%
– Khama Crescent, Plot 17938, Government Enclave
Barclays Life Botswana Proprietary Limited 50.10%
 
Canada
– 15th Floor, Bankers Court, 850 – 2nd Street, Calgary AB 
T2P 0R8
Clearbrook Resources Inc 21.62% Z
 
Cayman Islands
– Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309GT,  
Ugland House, South Church Street, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1104
Chrysaor Holdings Limited 39.60% F, J, Z
Cupric Canyon Capital LP 40.03% FF, Z
Southern Peaks Mining LP 56.17% FF, Z
Third Energy Holdings Limited 77.82% F, J, K, Z

Germany
– Schopenhauerstraße 10, D-90409, Nurnberg
Eschenbach Holding GmbH 21.70% Z
 
Ghana
– Barclays House, High Street, Accra
Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited 50.10%
 
Hong Kong
– 6/F, Kiu Fu Commercial Building, 300-306 Lockhart Road
CR SpaClub at Sea (HK) Limited 53.86% Z
 
Indonesia
– Wisma GKBI 39th Floor, Suite 3906, Jl. Jend. Sudirman 
No.28, Jakarta, 10210
PT Barclays Capital Securities Indonesia (In Liquidation) 99.00%
 
Isle of Man
– 3rd Floor, St George's Court, Upper Church Street, 
Douglas, IM1 1EE
Absa Manx Holdings Limited 50.10%
Absa Manx Insurance Company Limited 50.10%
 
Kenya
– 5th Floor, IKM Place, 5th Ngong Avenue, Nairobi
Barclays Life Assurance Kenya Limited 31.99%
– The West End Building, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi
Barclays (Kenya) Nominees Limited 34.32%
Barclays Bank Insurance Agency Limited 34.32%
Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited 34.32%
Barclays Deposit-Taking Microfinance Limited 34.32%
Barclays Financial Services Limited 34.32%
Barclays Pension Services Limited 31.20% Z
– 9th Floor, Williamson House, 4th Ngong Avenue, Nairobi
First Assurance Company Limited 31.99%
First Assurance Holdings Limited 50.10%
 
Korea, Republic of
– 18th Floor, Daishin Finance Centre, 343, Samil-daero, 
Jung-go, Seoul
Woori BC Pegasus Securitization Specialty Co., Limited 70.00% W
 
Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
BNRI Limehouse No.1 Sarl 96.30% R
Partnership Investments S.à r.l. 33.40%
Preferred Funding S.à r.l. 33.33% H
Preferred Investments S.à r.l. 33.33% H, I
 
Malta
– RS2 Buildings, Fort Road, Mosta MST 1859
RS2 Software PLC 18.25% Z

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
Mauritius
– Barclays House, 68 Cyber City, Ebène
Barclays Bank Mauritius Limited 50.10% G, H, J, K

Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, Monte Carlo
Societe Civile Immobiliere 31 Avenue de la Costa 75.00%
 
Mozambique
– Avenida 25 de Setembro, No 1184, 15 Andar, Maputo
Barclays Bank Mocambique SA 49.50%
– Rua da Imprensa, 183 – R/C, Maputo
Global Alliance Seguros, S.A. 50.10%
 
Namibia
– Bougain Villas, 78 Sam Nujoma Drive, Windhoek
EFS Namibia Proprietary Limited 50.10%
– Unit 6, Ausspann Plaza, Dr Agostinho Nero Road, 
Ausspannplatz, Windhoek
Absa Namibia Proprietary Limited 50.10%
 
Netherlands
– Alexanderstraat 18, 2514 JM, The Hague
Tulip Oil Holding BV 30.45% J, L,Z

Nigeria
– Plot 6, Block XII, Osborne Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos
Absa Capital Representative Office Nigeria Limited 50.10%
 
Norway
– Postbox 6783, ST Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo
EnterCard Norge AS 40.00% Z
– Skansegata 2, Stavanger, 4006, Rogland
Origo Exploration Holding AS 28.32% F, I, Z
 
Seychelles
– Capital City, Room 1-01, 1st Floor, Independence 
Avenue, Victoria, Mahe
Barclays Bank (Seychelles) Limited 49.98%
 
South Africa
– Barclays Towers West, 15 Troye Street,  
Johannesburg, 2001
1900 Summerstrand Share Block Limited 50.10%
Absa Alternative Asset Management Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Asset Management Proprietary Limited 50.05%
Absa Bank Limited 50.10% I, J
Absa Capital Securities Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Consultants and Actuaries Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Development Company Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10% F, I
Absa Estate Agency Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Financial Services Africa Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Financial Services Limited 50.10%
Absa Fleet Services Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Fund Managers Limited 50.10%
Absa idirect Limited 50.10%
Absa Insurance and Financial Advisers Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Insurance Company Limited 50.10%
Absa Insurance Risk Management Services Limited 50.10%
Absa Investment Management Services Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Life Limited 50.10% F, I
Absa Mortgage Fund Managers Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Ontwikkelingsmaatskappy Eiendoms Beperk 50.10%
Absa Outsource Competency Centre Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Portfolio Managers Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Property Development Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Secretarial Services Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Stockbrokers and Portfolio Management 
Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Technology Finance Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Trading and Investment Solutions Holdings 
Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Trading and Investment Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10%

46 Related undertakings continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
372 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
– Barclays Towers West, 15 Troye Street,  
Johannesburg, 2001 continued
Absa Trust (Natal) Limited 50.10%
Absa Trust Limited 50.10% I, J
Absa Vehicle Management Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Absa Vehicle Management Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10%
ABSAN Proprietary Limited 50.10%
ACS Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10%
AIMS Nominees (RF) Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Alberton Industrial Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Allied Development Company Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Allied Grinaker Properties Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 25.55%
Allpay Consolidated Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Allpay Eastern Cape Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 33.07%
Allpay Free State Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 30.06%
Allpay Gauteng Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 30.06%
Allpay Mpumalanga Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Allpay Western Cape Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 33.07%
Bankorptrust Limited 50.10%
Barclays Africa Group Limited 50.10%
Barclays Africa Regional Office Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Cedar Lakes Country Estates Proprietary Limited  
(Liquidated on 19 January 2017) 50.10%
Combined Mortgage Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Compro Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Draaikloof Properties Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 40.08%
FFS Finance South Africa (RF) Proprietary Limited 25.05%
Fradey Nominees (RF) Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Goldreef Village Share Block Limited 50.10%
Instant Life Proprietary Limited 37.57%
iSentials Proprietary Limited 25.05%
MAN Financial Services (SA) (RF) Proprietary Limited 25.05%
Marmanet Retirement Village Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Kempwest Proprietary Limited 25.05%
Lekkerleef Eiendoms Beperk 50.10%
MB Acquired Operations Limited (In Liquidation) 50.10%
Meeg Asset Finance Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 50.10%
Merfin Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Nation-Wide Recovery Services Proprietary Limited 25.05%
NewFunds (RF) Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Newgold Issuer (RF) Limited 50.10% Z
Newgold Managers Proprietary Limited 24.55%
Olieven Properties Proprietary Limited  
(Liquidated on 19 January 2017) 50.10%
Ottawa Development Trust Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Palmietfontein Investments Proprietary Limited  
(Liquidated on 19 January 2017) 50.10%
Roodekop Townships Proprietary Limited 50.10%
UBS Trust Limited 50.10%
United Development Corporation Proprietary Limited 50.10%
United Towers Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Volkskas Eiendomsdienste Eiendoms Beperk 50.10% I, J
Volkskastrust Beperk 50.10% I, J
Woodbook Finance Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Woolworths Financial Services Proprietary Limited 25.05%
– Absa Capital, 15 Alice Lane, Sandton, Gauteng
Barrie Island Property Investments Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Blue Age Properties 60 Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Culemborg Investment Properties Proprietary Limited 28.69% J, K
Diluculo Investments Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Diluculo Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Diluculo Property Trading Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Ngwenya River Estate Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Nkwe Rosslyn Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10%
Pienaarsrivier Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10%
– 18 Bompas Road, Dunkeld West
African Spirit Trading 309 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z
– 52 Grosvenor Road, Bryanston, 2021
Campus on Rigel Proprietary Limited (In Liquidation) 16.70% Z
– 9th Floor, Standard Bank Centre, 5 Simmonds Street, 
Johannesburg
Integrated Processing Solutions Proprietary Limited 25.05%
– Abcon House, Fairway Office Park, Bryanston
Somerset West Autopark Proprietary Limited 16.70% Z

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
– Corner Ian Halle, P O Box 44845, Claremont, 7735
Northern Lights Trading 197 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z
Pacific Heights Investments 196 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z

Sweden
– c/o ForeningsSparbanken AB, 105 34 Stockholm
EnterCard Holding AB 40.00% K, Z
EnterCard Sverige AB 40.00% Z

Tanzania, United Republic of
– Azali Certified Public Secretaries, Hillside Apartments, 
First Floor, Suite #04, Ragati Road Upperhill, Nairobi
First Assurance Company Limited (Tanzania) 16.79%
– Barclays House, P O Box 5137, Ohio Street,  
Dar es Salaam
Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited 50.10% G, I
– Mezzanine Floor, NBC House, Sokoine Drive,  
Dar es Salaam
National Bank of Commerce Limited 27.55%

Turkey
– Bahcelievier Mah., Kaldirim Cad. No. 34/1,  
Cengelkoy-Uskudar, Istanbul
CRKK RESORT OTEL ISLETMECILGI LIMITED SIRKETI 54.40% Z

Uganda
– 16 Kampala Road, Kampala
Barclays Bank of Uganda Limited 50.10%

United States
– 777 Main Street, Fort Worth TX 76102
CR Lenox Residences, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Management, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CRE Diversified Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Crown Greenway Plaza SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Crown Land Holding SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Hotel Owner GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Hotel Owner, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential LP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Restaurant GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Property Services LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership 80.00% B, Z
Crescent Real Estate Equities, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Resort Development LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent TRS Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent-Fearing, L.P. 40.00% B, Z
CREW Tahoe Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
DBL Texas Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Desert Mountain Development LLC 80.00% C, Z
Desert Mountain Properties Limited Partnership 74.40% B, Z
East West Resort Development VII LLC 80.00% C, Z
Mira Vista Development LLC 78.40% C, Z
Moon Acquisition Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Moon Acquisition LLC 80.00% C, Z
Mountainside Partners LLC 80.00% C, Z
Sonoma Golf Club, LLC 64.00% C, Z
Sonoma Golf, LLC 64.00% C, Z
Sonoma National, LLC 80.00% C, Z
– 8600 E. Rockcliff Road, Tucson AZ 85750
Canyon Ranch Enterprises, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Employment, Inc. 54.40% Z
CR Las Vegas, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR License, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Miami Employment, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Miami, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Operating, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Orlando, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Products, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR Resorts, LLC 54.40% C, Z
CR SpaClub at Sea, LLC 54.40% C, Z
Spa Project Advisors, LLC 54.40% C, Z
Tucson/Lenox Special Manager, Inc. 54.40% Z

46 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 373

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
– 8600 E. Rockcliff Road, Tucson AZ 85750 continued
Tucson/Lenox, LLC 54.40% C, Z
- 126 Riverfront Lane, 5th floor, Drawer 2770, Avon CO 
81620
Blue River Land Company, LLC 39.55% C, Z
East West Resort Development IV, L.P., L.L.L.P. 71.11% B, Z
East West Resort Development VI, L.P., L.L.L.P. 35.86% B, Z
East West Resort Development VIII, L.P., L.L.L.P. 71.11% B, Z
East West Resort Development XIV, L.P., L.L.L.P. 33.52% B, Z
EW Deer Valley, LLC 29.28% C, Z
EWRD Perry Holding, L.P., L.L.L.P. 67.61% B, Z
EWRD Perry-Riverbend, LLC 54.31% C, Z
EWRD Summit Holding, L.P., L.L.L.P. 79.57% B, Z
EWRD Summit, LLC 79.10% C, Z
MV Penthouses, LLC 51.20% C, Z
Water House on Main Street LLC 35.26% C, Z
– 3001 Northstar Drive, C200, Truckee CA 96161
CREW Tahoe LLC 60.80% C, Z
East West Resort Development V, L.P., L.L.L.P. 74.75% B, Z
Gray's Station, LLC 56.96% C, Z
Home Run Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Mountain Properties, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Trailside Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Northstar Village Townhomes, LLC 56.93% C, Z
Old Greenwood Realty, Inc. 60.80% Z
Old Greenwood, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Tahoe Club Company, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Tahoe Mountain Resorts, LLC 60.82% C, Z
The Glades Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z
– Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centreville Road, 
Suite 400, Wilmington DE 19808
CR SPE1, LLC 54.40% C, Z
Crescent CR Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Fresh Series B Hold Co. 80.00% Z
Crescent McKinney Olive Holdings GP LLC 80.00% C, Z
MVWP Development LLC 30.40% C, Z
MVWP Investors LLC 60.80% C, Z
Stellar Residences, LLC 60.82% C, Z
Stellar Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z
– 1701 Wynkoop Street, Suite 140, Box 47, Denver 
CO 80202
St. Charles Place, LLC 47.63% C, Z
The Park at One Riverfront, LLC 47.63% C, Z
Central Platte Valley Management, LLC 51.78% C, Z
Union Center LLC 51.78% C, Z
– Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington DE 19801
DG Solar Lessee II, LLC 50.00% C, Z
DG Solar Lessee, LLC 50.00% C, Z
Cupric Canyon Capital LLC 40.03% FF, Z
VS BC Solar Lessee I LLC 50.00% C, Z
– East West Partners, Inc., 126 Riverfront Lane, 5th Floor, 
Avon CO 81620
Tahoe Club Employee Company 60.80% Z
– 200 Renaissance Parkway Suite 20, Atlanta, 
Georgia 30308
Overlook at Sugarloaf Inc 50.10%
– C/O Capitol Services Inc., Suite B, 1675 South State 
Street, Dover DE 19901-5140
Continental Intermodal Group LP 37.58% FF, Z
– C/O W.J. Harrison & Associates, P.C., 3561 East Sunrise 
Dr., Ste. 201, Tucson AZ 85718
CR Bodrum Management, LLC 54.40% C, Z

– 6600 Mira Vista Blvd., Fort Worth TX 76132
Mira Vista Golf Club, L.C. 76.83% Z
– c/o National Corporate Research Ltd. 615 DuPont 
Highway, Dover, Kent County, DE 19901
Surrey Funding Corporation 99.45%
Sussex Purchasing Corporation 99.45%
 
Zambia
– 3rd Floor, Mpile Park, 74 Independence Avenue, Lusaka
Barclays Life Zambia Limited 50.10%

Other related undertakings Percentage Note
– Stand No. 4643 and 4644, Elunda Office Park, 
Addis Ababa Roundabout, Lusaka
Barclays Bank Zambia PLC 50.10%
– Kafue House, Cairo Road, Lusaka, 10101
Kafue House Limited 50.10%
Zimbabwe
– 2nd Floor, Barclay House, Corner First Street, Jason 
Moyo Avenue, PO Box 1279, Harare
Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited 67.68%
Barclays Merchant Bank of Zimbabwe Limited (In Liquidation) 67.68%
Barclays Zimbabwe Nominees (Pvt) Limited 67.68%
Fincor Finance Corporation Limited 67.68%
– 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business Park, 
Mount Pleasant , Harare
BRAINS Computer Processing (Pvt) Limited (In Liquidation) 78.45% F, I

Subsidiaries by virtue of control
The related undertakings below are subsidiaries in accordance with 
s.1162 Companies Act 2006 as Barclays can exercise dominant influence 
or control over them.  The entities are owned by The Barclays Bank UK 
Retirement Fund.
Subsidiaries by virtue of control Percentage Note
United Kingdom

– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Oak Pension Asset Management Limited                                  
Water Street Investments Limited 

0.00%       
0.00%

Z
Z

 
Cayman Islands
– PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, South Church Street, 
Grand Cayman, KY1-1104
Hornbeam Limited 0.00% Z

Joint Ventures
The related undertakings below are Joint Ventures in accordance with 
s. 18, Schedule 4, The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and are proportionally 
consolidated.

Joint Ventures Percentage Joint management factors
United Kingdom
– 21 Garlick Hill, London, 
EC4V 2AU

50.00% The Joint Venture Board comprises two 
Barclays representative directors, two JV 
partner directors and three non-JV partner 
directors. The Board is responsible for 
setting the company strategy and 
budgets.

Vaultex UK Limited

46 Related undertakings continued

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
374 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Notes
A Directly held by Barclays PLC
B Partnership Interest
C Membership Interest
D Trust Interest
E Guarantor
F Preference Shares
G A Preference Shares
H B Preference Shares
I Ordinary/Common Shares in addition to other shares
J A Ordinary Shares
K B Ordinary Shares
L C Ordinary Shares
M F Ordinary Shares
N O Ordinary Shares
O W Ordinary Shares
P Redeemable Ordinary Shares
Q Core Shares and Insurance (Classified) Shares
R B, C, D, E (94.36%), F (94.36%), G (94.36%), H (94.36%), I (94.36%), J (95.23%) 

and K Class Shares
S A and B Unit Shares
T Class A Residual Shares, Class B Residual Shares
U A Voting Shares and B Non-Voting Shares
V Class A Ordinary Shares, Class A Preference Shares (48.50%), Class B Ordinary 

Shares, Class C Ordinary Shares, Class C Preference Shares (92.53%), Class D 
Ordinary Shares, Class D Preference Shares, Class E Ordinary Shares, Class E 
Preference Shares, Class F Ordinary Shares, Class F Preference Shares, ClassH 2012 
Ordinary Shares, Class H 2012 Preference Shares, Class H Ordinary Shares, Class H 
Preference Shares (79.84%), Class I Preference Shares (50.00%), Class J Ordinary 
Shares, Class J Preference Shares

W First Class Common Shares, Second Class Common Shares
X PEF Carry Shares
Y EUR Tracker Shares, GBP Tracker Shares and USD Tracker Shares
Z Not Consolidated (see Note 37 Structured entities)
AA USD Linked Ordinary Shares
BB Redeemable Class B Shares
CC A Ordinary, Y Ordinary, Z Ordinary
DD A Ordinary, B Ordinary, ZA Ordinary, ZB Ordinary, D Ordinary
EE A Ordinary, ZI Ordinary
FF Class A Units / Interests

46 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 375

Shareholder information

Shareholder information Page
■■ Your Barclays shareholding 376
■■ Useful contact details 377

Resources for shareholders including 
contact details for shareholder enquiries 

Strateg
ic rep

ort
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
ents

S
h

areh
old

er inform
ation

<Page End><Page Start>
376 • Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.barclays/annualreport

Shareholder information
Your Barclays shareholding

Key dates 

5 April 2017
Final dividend payment date

28 April 2017
Q1 Results Announcement

10 May 2017
Annual General Meeting

18 September 2017
Interim dividend payment datea

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
This year's AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall, Southbank Centre, 
Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX on Wednesday, 10 May 2017 at 11.00am.

The Chairman and Chief Executive will update shareholders on our 
performance in 2016 and our goals for 2017. Shareholders will also have 
the opportunity to ask the Board questions at the meeting.

Charing
Cross

Waterloo

Royal
Festival
Hall

Stamford Street

Victoria Embankment

St
ra

nd

Waterloo
Road

Upper
Ground

Upper Ground

W
es

tm
in

st
er

B
ri

d
g

e

Waterloo
Bridge

River Thames

 
��You�can�find�out�more�at� 
home.barclays/agm

Dividends 
The�final�dividend�for�the�year�ended�31�December�2016�will�be�
2.0 pence per share, making the 2016 total dividend 3.0 pence, in line 
with our intention to reduce the dividend in 2016 and 2017 to help us to 
continue the run down of Non-Core. The Board recognise the 
importance of paying a meaningful dividend and are committed to doing 
so in the future.

How do Barclays shareholders receive their dividends?

53%

As�at�31�December�2016,�Barclays�shareholders�
received their dividends in the following ways:  

Direct to bank account  53.5% 
Cheque 25.1% 
Scrip dividend programme (new shares)  21.4% 

Save time and receive your dividends faster by choosing to have 
them paid directly into your bank or building society account 
It is easy to set up and your money will be in your bank account on the 
dividend payment date. If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can provide 
your bank or building society details quickly and easily over the 
telephone using the Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you hold more 
than 2,500 shares, please contact Equiniti for details of how to change 
your payment instruction.

Scrip Dividend Programme 
Shareholders can choose to have their dividends reinvested in new 
ordinary�Barclays�shares�through�the�Scrip�Dividend�Programme.�
More information, including the Terms and Conditions and application 
form, are available on our website.  

��To�find�out�more,�contact�Equiniti�or�visit� 
home.barclays/dividends

Keep your personal details up to date
Please remember to tell Equiniti if:
■■ you move  

■■ you need to update your bank or building society details.

If you are a Shareview member, you can update your bank or building 
society account or address details online. If you hold 2,500 shares or 
less, you can update details quickly and easily over the telephone using 
the Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you hold more than 2,500 shares 
you will need to write to Equiniti. You must provide a copy of your share 
certificate,�Sharestore�statement�or�most�recent�dividend�confirmation.�
If these are not available, you will need to provide a copy of a utility bill 
or bank statement dated in the last three months.

Note
a Please note that this date is provisional and subject to change.

Donations to charity
We�launched�a�Share�Dealing�Service�in�November�2016�aimed�at�
shareholders with relatively small shareholdings for whom it might 
otherwise be uneconomical to deal. One option open to shareholders 
was to donate their sale proceeds to ShareGift. As a result of this 
initiative, more than £100,000 was donated.

Returning funds to shareholders
Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up 
(SNTU) cheque following the Rights Issue in September 2013. In 2016, 
we continued the tracing process to reunite these shareholders with 
their SNTU monies and any unclaimed dividends. By the end of the 
year, we had returned over £1.65m to our shareholders.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 • 377

Useful contact details

Equiniti
 The Barclays share register is maintained by Equiniti.  
If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, 
please contact Equiniti by visiting shareview.co.uk 

 Equiniti 0371 384 2055b  (in the UK) 
+44 121 415 7004 (from overseas) 
0371 384 2255b (for the hearing impaired in the UK) 
+44 121 415 7028 (for the hearing impaired from overseas)

 Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays PLC shares which are 
traded on the New York Stock Exchange. ADRs carry prices, and pay 
dividends, in US dollars.

 If you have any questions about ADRs, please contact J.P.Morgan: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com or visit adr.com
  J.P.Morgan Shareholder Services  
+1 800 990 1135 (toll free in US and Canada) 
+1 651 453 2128 (outside the US and Canada)

 JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. 
PO Box 64504 
St Paul 
MN 55164-0854 
USA

Shareholder Relations
 To give us your feedback or if you have any questions, 
please contact: privateshareholderrelations@barclays.com

 Shareholder Relations Barclays PLC 1 Churchill Place 
London 
E14 5HP

Share price
Information on the Barclays share price and other share price 
tools are available at: home.barclays/investorrelations

Managing your shares online

Shareview
Barclays shareholders can go online to manage their shareholding  
and find out about Barclays performance by joining Shareview.

Through Shareview, you:
■■ will receive the latest updates from Barclays direct to your email
■■ can update your address and bank details online
■■ can vote in advance of general meetings.

To join Shareview, please follow these three easy steps:

Step 1 Go to shareview.co.uk

Step 2   Register for electronic communications  
by following the instructions on screen

Step 3  You will be sent an activation code  
in the post the next working day

Shareholder security
Shareholders should be wary of any cold calls with an offer to buy or  
sell shares. Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure techniques to  
lure shareholders into high-risk investments or scams. You should treat  
any unsolicited calls with caution.

Please keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) are unlikely to contact you out of the blue. You should 
consider getting independent financial or professional advice from someone 
unconnected to the respective firm before you hand over any money.

Report a scam. If you suspect that you have been approached 
by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting 

form at fca.org.uk/scams. You can also call the FCA Helpline on  
0800 111 6768 or through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.

Note
b Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.

Alternative formats 

Shareholder documents can be provided in 
large print, audio CD or braille free of charge 
by calling Equiniti.

0371 384 2055b (in the UK)  
+44 121 415 7004 (from overseas)

Audio versions of the Strategic Report  
will also be available at the AGM

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes
The term Barclays or Group refers to Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise 
stated, the income statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2016 to the 
corresponding twelve months of 2015 and balance sheet analysis as at 31 December 2016 with 
comparatives relating to 31 December 2015. The abbreviations ‘£m' and ‘£bn' represent millions 
and thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively; the abbreviations ‘$m' and ‘$bn' 
represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively; and the abbreviations 
‘€m' and ‘€bn' represent millions and thousands of millions of Euros respectively.

Comparatives have been restated to reflect the implementation of the Group business 
reorganisation. These restatements were detailed in our announcement on 14 April 2016, 
accessible at home.barclays/results. 

There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which 
are based on models and which are subject to ongoing adjustment and modifications. 
Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.

Notable items as set out on page 244 and are considered to be significant items impacting 
comparability of performance. 

Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory 
guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are explained in the results 
glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/results.

The information in this announcement, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 
22 February 2017, does not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015, which 
included certain information required for the Joint Annual Report on Form 20-F of Barclays PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and which contained 
an unqualified audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 (which did not make 
any statements under Section 498 of the Companies Act 2006) have been delivered to the 
Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act 2006.

These results will be furnished as a Form 20-F to the SEC as soon as practicable following their 
publication. Once furnished with the SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will also be available from 
the Barclays Investor Relations website home.barclays/results and from the SEC's website at 
www.sec.gov.

Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and regularly meets with investors 
via formal road-shows and other ad hoc meetings. Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays 
expects that from time to time over the coming quarter it will meet with investors globally 
to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Group.

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in this 
document provide valuable information to the readers of the financial statements as they enable 
the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the business' performance between 
financial periods, and provide more detail concerning the elements of performance which the 
managers of these businesses are most directly able to influence or are relevant for an 
assessment of the Group. They also reflect an important aspect of the way in which operating 
targets are defined and performance is monitored by Barclays' management. However, any 
non-IFRS performance measures in this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and 
readers should consider the IFRS measures as well. Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further 
information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included 
throughout this document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.

Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E 
of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. Barclays cautions readers that no 
forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other 
financial condition or performance measures could differ materially from those contained in the 
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that 
they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use 
words such as ‘may', ‘will', ‘seek', ‘continue', ‘aim', ‘anticipate', ‘target', ‘projected', ‘expect', 
‘estimate', ‘intend', ‘plan', ‘goal', ‘believe', ‘achieve' or other words of similar meaning. Examples 
of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding the 
Group's future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, notable 
items, business strategy, structural reform, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, payment 
of dividends (including dividend pay-out ratios and expected payment strategies), projected 
levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, original and 
revised commitments and targets in connection with the strategic cost programme and the 
Group Strategy Update, rundown of assets and businesses within Barclays Non-Core, sell down 
of the Group's interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited, estimates of capital expenditures and 
plans and objectives for future operations, projected employee numbers and other statements 
that are not historical fact. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. These may be affected by 
changes in legislation, the development of standards and interpretations under International 
Financial Reporting Standards, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and 
application of accounting and regulatory standards, the outcome of current and future legal 
proceedings and regulatory investigations, future levels of conduct provisions, future levels of 
notable items, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, geopolitical 
risks and the impact of competition. In addition, factors including (but not limited to) the 
following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other regulatory rules (including with regard 
to the future structure of the Group) applicable to past, current and future periods; UK, US, 
Africa, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and business conditions; the effects of continued 
volatility in credit markets; market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign 
exchange rates; effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures; changes in valuation 
of issued securities; volatility in capital markets; changes in credit ratings of any entities within 
the Group or any securities issued by such entities; the potential for one or more countries 
exiting the Eurozone; the implications of the results of the 23 June 2016 referendum in the United 
Kingdom and the disruption that may result in the UK and globally from the withdrawal of the 
United Kingdom from the European Union; the implementation of the strategic cost programme; 
and the success of future acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of 
these influences and factors are beyond the Group's control. As a result, the Group's actual future 
results, dividend payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially from the plans, 
goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the Group's forward-looking statements. Additional 
risks and factors which may impact the Group's future financial condition and performance are 
identified in our filings with the SEC (including, without limitation, our annual report on form 
20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016), which are available on the SEC's website at 
www.sec.gov. 

Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of the United Kingdom and 
the United States in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation 
to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. 

This Report is printed on Cocoon Preprint made from 
100% FSC® Recycled certified fibre sourced from de-inked 
post-consumer waste. The printer and the manufacturing 
mill are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental 
Management Systems Standard and both are FSC® 
certified. By printing this publication on Cocoon Preprint, 
the environmental impact was reduced by: 4,952 kg of 
landfill, 732 kg CO2 and greenhouse gases, 102,989 litres 
of water, 9,490 kWh of energy and 8,046 kg of wood. 

Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil 
in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology. 
Calculations are based on a comparison between the 
recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to 
the latest European BREF data (virgin fibre paper) available. 

Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP © Barclays Bank PLC 2017 
Registered in England. Registered No: 48839 9914916

Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn www.fhflondon.co.uk

<Page End>