<Read from Text><Page Start>
Barclays PLC
Annual Report  
2018

Creating 
opportunities  
to rise

<Page End><Page Start>
Barclays PLC Strategic Report 2018
An overview of our 2018 performance, a focus on our 
strategic direction, and a review of the businesses 
underpinning our strategy.

Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018
A detailed review of Barclays 2018 performance with 
disclosures that provide useful insight and go beyond 
reporting requirements.

Barclays PLC Environmental Social 
Governance (ESG) Report 2018
Our ESG strategic priorities and performance, reported 
against a range of quantitative and qualitative indicators.

Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Disclosures 2018
A summary of our risk profile, its interaction with the 
Group's risk appetite, and risk management.

Barclays PLC Country Snapshot 2018
An overview of our tax contribution country by country 
as well as our broader approach to tax, including our UK 
tax strategy.

For further information and a fuller understanding 
of the results and the state of affairs of the Group, 
please refer to the full Barclays PLC Annual Report 
2018 suite of documents available at  
home.barclays.com/annualreport

Our common Purpose is 
‘Creating opportunities to 
rise'. We are a company of 
opportunity makers working 
together to help people  
rise – customers, clients, 
colleagues and society.

Barclays PLC Annual Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2019 and signed on its 
behalf by the Chairman. 

Details on how to obtain a copy of the full Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 can be found in the Shareholder 
information section at the back of this report. 

Report of the Auditor
The Auditor's report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 was unqualified, and their 
statement under section 496 (whether the Strategic Report and the Directors' report are consistent with the 
accounts) of the Companies Act 2006 was unqualified.

Approach to non-financial performance reporting
We note the requirements under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, relating to the preparation of the 
Strategic Report which have been amended by the Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and 
Non-Financial Reporting) Regulations 2016, which implements EU Directive 2014/95/EU (on non-financial 
and diversity information).  As a result of these changes, we have integrated the information required for a 
Non-Financial Information Statement into the Strategic Report, thereby promoting cohesive reporting of 
non-financial matters.

Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures and forward looking statements
Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in this document provide 
valuable information to the readers of the financial statements.  This document also contains certain 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group.  For 
further details on Notes, non-IFRS performance measures, and forward-looking statements used within this 
document, please see inside back cover. 

When you see this icon you will find more 
information online

When you see this icon you will find more 
information on another page or Barclays report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 01

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

Governance
Governance contents  47
Directors' report  48
People  93
Remuneration report  99

Financial review
Financial review contents  223
Key performance indicators  224
Consolidated summary income statement  226
Income statement commentary  227
Consolidated summary balance sheet  228
Balance sheet commentary  229
Analysis of results by business  230
Margins and balances  240
Non-IFRS performance measures  241

Financial statements
Financial statements contents  247
Consolidated financial statements  256
Notes to the financial statements  264

Risk review
Risk review contents  127
Risk management  129
Material existing and emerging risks  131
Principal Risk management  137
Risk performance  149
Supervision and regulation  215

Shareholder information 
Key dates, Annual General Meeting,  
Dividends, useful contact details,  
managing your shares online and  
how to obtain alternative formats of 
shareholder documents 360

Governance compliance Compliance with  
The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2016 
 Page 40

Viability statement 
 
 
 Page 42

Non-financial information 
statement 
 
 Page 44

An update on our businesses Barclays UK Page 30
Operating model, market opportunities,  
and how we deliver on our strength as  
a UK consumer and business bank

Personal Banking Page 32
Barclaycard Consumer UK Page 32
 Business Banking Page 33

Barclays International Page 34
Operating model, market opportunities,  
and how we deliver on our strength as  
a global wholesale and consumer bank

Corporate and Investment Bank Page 36
Consumer, Cards and Payments Page 37

Barclays Execution Services Page 38
Operating model and how we provide efficiencies and innovation for the Group

What's inside this report

Our structure, strategy and how
we measure our performance

Risk  
management 

Structure and governance 
overseeing risk

Page 28

Key performance 
indicators

Measuring performance

Page 18

Purpose and values
We are a company of 
opportunity makers

Page 10

Stakeholder 
engagement

Engaging stakeholders for 
feedback and direction

Page 16

Business model 
Working together  
to help people rise

Page 14

Strategy
Playing to our  

strengths

Page 12

Our leadership team discusses the  
year and the future for Barclays

Chairman's letter Page 02
A solid foundation for the future

Chief Executive's review Page 05
We are delivering on our strategy

Operating environment Page 08
A constantly evolving operating environment

Strategic Report pages 2 to 46

<Page End><Page Start>
02 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

John McFarlane
Chairman

A solid foundation for the future
Chairman's letter

Dear Fellow Shareholders
I am pleased to report that Barclays is in 
a very different place than it has been since 
the global financial crisis, and with the 
significant restructuring done, we can now 
for the first time in the recent past look 
forward to enhancing shareholder returns 
and distributions.

We have made significant progress, 
particularly in the past few years:
■■ we resolved a substantial portion of our 

major legacy matters putting behind us 
issues that have to date cost us over 
£17 billion

■■ we exited the bulk of our non-core and 
sub-performing assets at a cost of over 
£12 billion.

We implemented all elements of structural 
reform requirements:
■■ created a new ring-fenced UK bank from 

scratch, ahead of competitors and time, 
that is operating strongly

■■ established a service company that is 
delivering operational and financial 
efficiencies, creating the capacity to 
reinvest in the core businesses, as well 
as being in a position to provide essential 
services in the event of a failure of the bank

■■ finalised the arrangements for an 
intermediate holding company in the US

■■ set up arrangements in the EU and 
a transfer process, such that we are one 
of the most prepared banks for Brexit

■■ reflected advanced corporate governance 
in the major subsidiary banks with new 
governance arrangements including the 
introduction of separate boards of directors.

We have also developed a strong values-based 
culture that enables us to serve our customers, 
to make a significant contribution to society, 
to reward shareholders and to protect 
ourselves from the reputational damage 
associated with poor industry conduct. 

Against a backdrop of very substantial 
increases in regulatory capital requirements, 
over time we have built up sufficient capital 
and financial strength enabling us to achieve 
our target capital ratio of c.13% of risk-
weighted assets, prudently surpassing our 
mandatory distribution restriction hurdle, and 
we are in a position to endure severe future 
economic stress and yet be in a position to 
extend credit to our customers in that event. 
Some commentators imply because we are 
at that level but below other more domestic 
competitors, our capital is inadequate. 
However, we do not agree. The aim is to have 
the right amount of capital to balance safety 
and returns, rather than the maximum 
amount possible.

The Chairman presents a review  
of the year and the key events and  
impacts on our business.

<Page End><Page Start>
Strategic report

home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 03

Perform
an

ce review
G

overn
an

ce overview
R

em
u

n
eration

 fram
ew

ork
Fin

an
cial perform

an
ce

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation

While digital technology has radically changed 
people's lives and has brought untold benefits, 
unfortunately, it has also brought cybercrime. 
Not only are criminals after information, they 
are after money, and can and will steal it 
where and whenever they choose, whether 
we are awake or asleep. They are harnessing 
this new digital reality, in which they can reach 
out across the globe, anonymously, and 
virtually risk-free. They are smart, highly 
innovative and persistent. The rewards are 
enormous and the risks to them low. This 
issue is a real and present danger, not only 
to our current way of life, but also to society 
as a whole.

At Barclays, we have made defending against 
cybercrime one of our most important and 
most urgent priorities. Accordingly, we are 
investing heavily to protect our customers, 
our systems, our bank and society. This is 
a decision not only worth making, but one 
where there really is no choice in assuring 
the long-term future of the company.

Moreover, and finally, our major businesses 
are now positioned for success and on a path 
to deliver healthy and sustainable returns for 
shareholders. The return to profit in the year 
has also enabled us to increase the return of 
capital to shareholders, including increasing 
our dividend to its previous level.

Turning to the year itself, Group statutory 
profit before tax was £3.5bn, down 1% on 
the prior year (after absorbing litigation and 
conduct losses in the year of £2.2bn) yielding 
a return on tangible equity of 3.6%, up 7.2% 
on the prior year. Earnings per share showed 
a better picture at 9.4p, up from a 10.3p loss 
in 2017. The improved result benefited from a 
significant reduction in impairment as a result 
of prudent management of credit risk, as well 
as the benefit from improved macroeconomic 
forecasts during the year.

The conduct losses were a major factor in 
reducing our tangible net asset value per 
share (TNAV) from 276p to 262p in the year. 
The significant reduction to today's level in 
part reflects the gruelling effect of the global 
financial crisis. I believe, and we have seen it 
in the quarterly progression since Q1 2018, 
that period of decline is now over, and we 
should over time see TNAV rising, which is 
an important foundation for the share price 
and progressive dividends.

Excluding litigation and conduct items, 
profit before tax was £5.7bn, up 20% on the 
previous year and yielded a return on tangible 
equity of 8.5%, just shy of our target levels for 
2019 and 2020. Earnings per share was 21.9p, 
up from a 3.5p loss in the prior year.

These results demonstrate a good level 
of progress and provide a solid foundation 
for the future.

On the same basis, our businesses generally 
showed progress and advanced performance 
in the year. 

Barclays International (which includes 
our Corporate and Investment Bank and 
Consumer Cards and Payments) grew its 
profits before tax 10% to £3.9bn and achieved 
a return on tangible equity of 8.7%. The 
Corporate and Investment Bank was the major 
contributor to profit growth, up 15% on the 
prior year at £2.7bn, and with an improved 
return on tangible equity of 7.1%. Consumer 
Cards and Payments achieved profits before 
tax of £1.2bn, with a strong return on 
tangible equity of 17.3%.

Barclays UK continues to be a major 
contributor to the Group with profits before 
tax of £2.4bn and with a strong return on 
tangible equity of 16.7%.

However, as we all know, in banking 
the journey is never done. The economic 
environment remains uncertain and issues 
will emerge, but we feel secure that we will 
be able to deal with these as they arise. 
In particular, we are well prepared for Brexit 
and the transfer of businesses into the EU, 
as and when this is required.

Shareholders may now be aware that 
funds managed by Sherborne, controlling 
approximately 5.5% of your company's share 
capital, have proposed that Edward Bramson, 
of Sherborne, be appointed to your Board. 
Sherborne's views and intentions in doing so 
are not fully clear to us. We continue to meet 
and correspond with Sherborne and Mr 
Bramson, and give due consideration to the 
issues they raise. As such, we do not believe 
that a board seat is needed for Sherborne to 
contribute its views. Your Directors believe 
that good governance requires a cohesive 
board that can properly represent the interests 
of all shareholders, and not just a small 
proportion of them.

The Board remains confident in our 
strategy, the fruits of which are reflected in 
our improved operating results. We believe 
it is important to avoid a further period of 
significant disruption, from which we have 
only this year freed ourselves, so that the 
Board and management can focus on 
executing the strategy and on our plans to 
improve performance beyond current levels. 
As a result, your Board is recommending 
that shareholders vote against the 
Sherborne resolution.

Introducing your Chairman-designate

Succeeding John McFarlane, 
who has done such a sterling 
job during a period of great 
change at Barclays, is a 
huge honour.

I have been lucky enough to enjoy  
36 years at Rothschild, working with 
many wonderful colleagues and clients, 
and particularly honoured to lead the 
firm for a decade or so. 

I now look forward to joining another 
great institution and to working closely 
with its executive management team,  
led by Jes Staley, and my fellow 
non-executive Directors. 

I am totally committed to helping 
Barclays and its people continue to 
develop and progress.

Nigel Higgins
Chairman-designate

<Page End><Page Start>
04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

A solid foundation for the future
Chairman's letter

I might also mention our position on energy 
finance and climate change, as it is now a 
major consideration for boards. It is a priority 
for us to contribute to society's initiatives 
in limiting the impact of climate change. 
In doing so, we must recognise that for 
some time to come, renewable sources 
alone cannot meet global demand for energy.

Hence, our position has three areas of focus:
■■ financing the growth of green and renewable 

energy sources and proactively supporting 
the development of businesses aiming to 
solve the world's environmental challenges

■■ taking a responsible and sustainable 
approach to the financing of essential 
sources of energy today that are more 
carbon intensive, or those with higher 
environmental impact, and

■■ reducing the carbon footprint of our 
own operations and supply chain. 

The world is in transition, and Barclays' 
approach reflects this. It requires a balance 
between advancing tomorrow's energy 
technologies and reducing our current 
exposure to carbon-intensive energy sources 
such as thermal coal, recognising current 
reliance on traditional energy sources is 
necessary until such time as new methods 
can replace them fully. 

We share the desire to accelerate the 
transition to a green future, and will 
therefore work constructively with all of 
our stakeholders to find the right balance. 
Shareholders can read more about our 
approach on page 23 of the Strategic 
Report and in the Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) Report.

If we pause to reflect on the period since the 
crisis, it has indeed been a tough few years for 
the Group. What we have achieved could not 
have been done without the leadership of our 
Chief Executive Jes Staley and his senior team. 
I would therefore like to thank the Board, 
our management and all our staff for the 
enormous efforts they have made to make 
Barclays a better place. 

You will be aware I plan to retire from the 
Group at the upcoming AGM. I'm satisfied 
that I will leave a company that is capable 
and prepared for the future, in particular to 
be able to deliver sustainably stronger returns 
to shareholders than have been seen for 
many years. 

The Corporate and Investment Bank is an 
important contributor to the economy, has 
increased its market position globally and 
particularly in the US and Europe, positioning 
itself as a leading player in the world's deepest 
capital pools at a time when capital markets 
are playing an increasingly important role in 
supporting the growth of our corporate and 
institutional clients. 

Barclays UK is strongly positioned in both 
Cards and in Retail banking, and our US cards 
business is now larger than our UK equivalent 
with attractive prospects for growth. 

The Group has also invested appropriately in 
digitisation to position us to take advantage 
of the technical revolution, as well as defending 
ourselves from new Fintech competitors.

This new financial and operational foundation 
and improved business productivity and 
performance should serve us well in the 
coming years and should enable share price 
recovery from recent discounted levels. 

And finally, since this is my last letter to you as 
Chairman, it has been a great privilege for me 
to have served this great company and you as 
shareholders, and I thank you for allowing me 
to do so. I will of course continue to serve you 
until I finally step down. 

I commend my proposed successor, Nigel 
Higgins to you. The Board has made an 
excellent choice and I have every confidence 
that Nigel will be a superb steward of the 
Board and the Company. 

John McFarlane
Chairman

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 05

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

We are delivering on our strategy
Chief Executive's review

2018 represented a very significant period 
for Barclays.

In the course of the year, having resolved 
major legacy issues and reduced the drag 
from low returning businesses, we started 
to see the true earnings potential of this bank, 
as the strategy we have implemented began 
to deliver.

This was evident in the strongly improved 
performance across the Group compared 
to 2017. 

Excluding litigation and conduct, profit before 
tax was up 20% – an outcome driven in part 
by lower impairment as a result of prudent 
management of credit risk, as well as the 
benefit from improved macroeconomic 
forecasts during the year.

Our Group return on tangible equity, was 
8.5% for the full year –  close to our 2019 
financial target of greater than 9%. Achieving 
our return on tangible equity targets of greater 
than 9% in 2019 and greater than 10% in 
2020 will remain our overriding priority.

BX, our service company, has driven greater 
efficiency through the business and allowed 
us to bring costs down to within our guidance 
range of £13.6-13.9 billion, while creating 
capacity for investment. We have the ability 
to flex that investment to support our return 
on tangible equity targets if the environment 
requires us to do so.

Excluding litigation and conduct, our earnings 
per share for the full year were 21.9p.

What these key performance measures 
demonstrate is that our strategy is working, 
and momentum is building in Barclays.

As we began the year, we had all but reached 
the end of the huge restructuring of the 
business which we commissioned with 
our strategy in March of 2016: 
■■ we had completed the run-down of our 

Non-Core Unit, eliminating over £90bn of 
Risk Weighted Assets – predominantly in 
our Corporate & Investment Bank – closing 
operations in a dozen countries, and selling 
some 20 businesses which were no longer 
strategically important to Barclays 

■■ we had sold down our interest in Barclays 
Africa to a level allowing regulatory 
deconsolidation, which was formally 
granted in July of 2018 

■■ we had completed our work on structural 
reform, creating our Intermediate Holding 
Company in the USA, and standing up our 
ring-fenced bank in the UK – the successful 
execution of which in April was the result 
of an extraordinary effort by colleagues 
across the bank, and one of the biggest 
technological shifts ever carried out in 
financial services; and

“The fundamental strength of our Group rests 
on a diversified, though connected, portfolio of 
interests – and Barclays today is very well 
diversified by geography, by product segment, 
and by currency.”

James E. Staley
Group Chief Executive

<Page End><Page Start>
06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

We are delivering on our strategy
Chief Executive's review

■■ we had created our Service Company, 
Barclays Execution Services, or ‘BX', as 
a state-of-the-art operating platform 
on which to run and build our business 
going forward.

We were able to resolve major outstanding 
legacy conduct issues for the bank in 2018: 
■■ reaching a settlement with the US 

Department of Justice in relation to 
Residential Mortgage Backed Securities 

■■ having the UK SFO charges against the 
bank relating to our 2008 capital raisings 
dismissed; and

■■ providing further for the completion 
of PPI redress.

We have also implemented our contingency 
plan to ensure we can continue to seamlessly 
service our clients across Europe following 
a UK withdrawal from the EU.

This transformation – as with any major 
corporate restructuring – cost a substantial 
amount of money to effect, and absorbed 
enormous amounts of colleague time and 
management focus. But the effort and 
investment was worth it to remove major 
drags on the operational effectiveness and 
profitability of Barclays, and to create the 
model we laid out in our strategy – a 
transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, 
with global reach – which is now starting to 
generate attractive and sustainable returns 
for our shareholders.

The fundamental strength of our Group rests 
on a diversified, though connected, portfolio 
of businesses - and Barclays is well diversified 
by geography, by product and by currency 
between our consumer and wholesale 
businesses.

We have a great position in UK retail and 
business banking, serving 23 million 
customers and a million small businesses 
in a market where we have roots going back 
328 years. We have an enviable position in fast 
growing international cards and payments in 
the UK, US, and Europe. And we are a strong 
and profitable global player in corporate and 
investment banking, anchored in the world's 
deepest and most sophisticated capital 
markets of London and New York.

Our diversified model is not only designed to 
be well balanced and produce consistent and 
attractive returns through the economic cycle, 
it is also a more robust model for any modern 
financial services business. A decade after the 
financial crisis I am very confident that 
Barclays today would be well prepared to 
weather major shocks in the future.

Of course one area where performance 
progress has unfortunately not been reflected 
is in our share price, which remains 
disappointingly low. In common with all 
European banks, we have been hit very hard 
in this regard by macroeconomic issues which 
have weighed heavily on investor sentiment. 

Notwithstanding that, I have repeatedly said 
that a management team cannot rest while 
the share price trades below book value, and it 
is a priority for us to drive a recovery.

Improved returns to shareholders will certainly 
help in that endeavour. In 2018, based on our 
strong capital position, the restoration of the 
dividend to 6.5p, and the redemption of 
expensive preference shares dating from the 
financial crisis, saw us return around £1.8bn 
of capital. That is progress, but not yet 
sufficient.

As we generate excess capital going forward we 
intend to return a greater proportion of those 
earnings to shareholders by way of dividends 
and other distributions including buybacks, and 
I am optimistic for our prospects to do more in 
2019 and beyond.

There are three principal reasons for that 
optimism. 

First, the opportunity to further digitise our 
consumer businesses in the UK, the US, and 
in Germany is significant. For example, today 
we have 11 million digitally active customers, 
with over six million users of our award-
winning mobile banking app in the UK, and 
the quality of engagement with customers 
on digital platforms such as these is 
impressive. On average, a Barclays customer 
visits a branch once every six weeks. Contrast 
that with the statistics for Barclays Mobile 
Banking, where customers typically go into 
the app every single day. Our relationships 
with these customers are consequently much 
stronger, and we are better able to help them 
with their financial needs. Of course as we 
expand our offering in this area we have a 
close eye on the security and resilience of 
systems.

Second, the importance of capital markets 
as a source of funding for corporates and 
investment is growing, continuing the shift 
in recent years away from reliance on bank 
balance sheets. In the past decade bank 
lending to corporates has declined by 14% 
relative to GDP. At the same time there has 
been a surge in capital market issuance, with 
global Debt Capital Markets up by 75% in the 
past decade - and we are a top 4 player in 
Debt Capital Markets. Since the financial crisis, 
growth in the bond market in Europe has 
replaced 90% of the decline in bank lending. 
These trends will continue and, as the only 
non-US investment bank operating at scale in 
both London and New York, we are well 
placed to participate in the opportunity this 
represents. Competing in the top tier of global 

investment banking, enabled by our size 
and commitment across asset classes, is 
important to Barclays' future returns – and we 
demonstrably do compete. For example, 
in our Markets business in 2018 we saw 
revenue growth on a US dollar basis. 

Third, we are today investing in multiple 
growth opportunities – principally in 
technology development – across the Group. 
The efficiencies driven by BX, our service 
company, have been instrumental in creating 
the capacity to do so, while continuing 
to control our costs. Such meaningful 
investments in growth opportunities 
were simply not a viable option during 
the many years of reshaping this company.

As our strategy continues to work, the 
principal calls on our future earnings 
should now be returns to shareholders 
and investment in growing the business – 
rather than litigation and conduct charges, 
restructuring costs, and capital accumulation. 
That shift is very welcome.

I remain hugely proud of the continuing 
positive impact which Barclays has in the 
communities in which we operate around 
the world. From our major citizenship 
programmes such as LifeSkills, Connect 
with Work, and Unreasonable Impact, to the 
individual, local, social and charitable efforts 
of colleagues and teams around the world. 
This work says much about the culture of 
Barclays today – driven by a deep commitment 
to help customers, clients, and wider society, 
to rise and succeed. I am grateful for the effort 
and commitment Barclays' people exhibit 
every day.

Barclays International

Ba
rc

la
ys

 U
K

Ba

rcl
ays

 Execution Services

Barclays

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 07

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Finally, I want to pay tribute to the 
contribution of our retiring Chairman, 
John McFarlane, to the development of 
Barclays over these past four years. 

John took on the Chairmanship of the 
Group during a period of tumultuous change 
for financial services, and for this bank in 
particular. Barclays, and I personally, have 
been fortunate to benefit from his wisdom, 
his challenge, his courage to make tough calls, 
and his steadfast leadership during that time. 
It is due in no small part to John that we find 
ourselves in such a positive position today, 
with our turnaround complete, and confident 
in our prospects. On behalf of colleagues 
across the bank, I would like to thank John 
for his stewardship, and to wish him and his 
family well following his retirement in May.

James E. Staley
Group Chief Executive

Delivering for our wider stakeholders is integral to our success
We are responding to global challenges like 
climate change and global energy demand 
by evaluating our financing of carbon 
intensive energy sources, while proactively 
supporting the development of green 
financial products and services. We are 
contributing to inclusive prosperity by 
enhancing the skills and meaningful 
employment opportunities of people 
in our local communities. And we are 
investing in innovation from our best 
asset – our colleagues – to test and scale 
new business opportunities that tackle 
social and environmental challenges.

We are responding to global 
challenges, supporting the 
development of green financial 
products and services, and 
contributing to inclusive 
prosperity.

The Environmental Social Governance
(ESG) Report provides additional
information on key non-financial topics 
and forms part of the Barclays PLC Annual
Report suite. 

See Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018 available at  
home.barclays/annualreport 

<Page End><Page Start>
08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

A constantly evolving operating environment
Operating environment

Barclays is a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, anchored in our 
two home markets of the UK and US, therefore impacted by a wide range of 
macroeconomic, political, regulatory and accounting, technological and social 
developments. The evolving operating environment presents opportunities 
and risks which we continue to monitor and evaluate to ensure that we 
appropriately adapt our strategy and its delivery.

Economic growth
The global economy continued to expand 
in 2018, at an estimated rate of 3.7%a. 
However, there have been noticeable regional 
differences. US expansion accelerated through 
higher consumer spending as tax cuts 
boosted disposable income. On the other 
hand, growth in Japan, Eurozone and the 
UK slowed amid political and economic 
disruption. Significant concerns remain 
around the sustainability of the sovereign 
debt level in Italy. Emerging markets diverged 
due to higher interest rates in the US, volatile 
oil price and escalating trade tensions. 

Central banks continued tightening monetary 
conditions, notably, the Federal Reserve 
and Bank of England increased their policy 
rate and the European Central Bank (ECB) 
announced the end of its quantitative easing 
programme. Labour markets have tightened, 
putting upward pressure on inflation, 
indicating potential further monetary 
tightening.

Barclays' business mix spans multiple 
geographies and client types – we believe 
a diversified portfolio lowers volatility and 
enhances stability in a macro environment 
such as ours today. As a result, we believe 
in Barclays' ability to generate solid returns 
through economic cycles, even when some 
areas perform less well than others.

Political risks
Global political uncertainty continued to 
manifest itself in 2018. Conflicts remained 
unresolved in some areas of the world, such 
as Asia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. 
In addition, rising trade tensions across the 
globe are starting to have a negative impact 
on economic activity, consumer confidence 
and general financial conditions. The 
possibility of an escalating trade conflict 
between the US and China would likely 
have significant and wide-ranging economic 
and political consequences. Separately, 
Brexit continues to give rise to significant 
uncertainty across the socio-economic 
environment in Europe.

The uncertain political environment may 
impact market dynamics and sentiment 
– however, we believe in Barclays' ability 
to adapt to changes for the benefit of 
customers, clients and broader stakeholders.

Regulations 
From 1 January 2019, the largest UK banks 
were required to have separated core retail 
banking operations from investment banking 
and international banking activities to comply 
with the Financial Services (Banking Reform) 
Act 2013. These banks have had to restructure 
their activities and operations on a scale 
rarely seen before to comply with the 
new legislation. These changes have had 
implications for almost all stakeholders, with 
banks particularly focused on minimising 
disruption for clients and customers.

On 1 April 2018, Barclays' UK banking 
business, largely comprising of Personal 
Banking, Barclaycard Consumer UK and 
Business Banking, was transferred from 
Barclays Bank PLC (BBPLC) to Barclays Bank 
UK PLC under the single ring-fencing transfer 
scheme. The corresponding products and 
services including current and savings 
accounts, consumer lending, credit cards, 
investment products and services, and 
business banking solutions, were also 
transferred.

Separately, as a consequence of the likely 
departure of the UK from the European Union 
(EU), financial services firms that previously 
accessed European markets through the 
UK, will need to establish new legal entities 
in Europe to ensure business continuity 
and minimise disruption to clients. Banks in 
particular are having to implement significant 
changes that include but are not limited to; 
the transfer, or recruitment, of colleagues into 
the EU; building infrastructure; transfer of 
balance sheet; and trades.  

To help manage the risks related to Brexit, 
Barclays is expanding its existing banking 
subsidiary in the EU, Barclays Bank Ireland PLC 
(BBI). BBI will become a wholly owned 
subsidiary of BBPLC, through which we will be 
able to continue to serve our European clients 
globally and our global clients in Europe. We 
currently already have branches of BBPLC in 
key European jurisdictions, which will become 
branches of BBI as part of our response to the 
UK exiting the EU. We continue to work closely 

with our regulators in the UK and Europe to 
ensure we will be able to support our clients in 
Europe, and globally, from the moment the UK 
leaves the EU. However, execution risks remain 
for the industry as a whole, including but not 
limited to balance sheet and trade transfers, 
client readiness and operational resiliency. 

The revised Payments Services Directive 
(PSD2) and Open Banking went live in early 
2018. These initiatives require banks to 
share more customer information, subject to 
customer consent, with regulated third parties 
than ever before. Such regulatory changes 
are designed to bolster innovation and market 
competition. This poses challenges to the 
traditional banking business model, however, 
opportunities exist for banks that develop new 
products and services to customers, improve 
customer journeys, and extend beyond 
traditional financial products. 

The EU General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) came into effect in May 2018. The 
GDPR aims primarily to give individuals 
control over their personal data and to 
simplify the regulatory environment for 
international business by unifying the 
regulation within the EU. In today's modern 
economy, data is becoming increasingly 
important and banks are emerging as key 
custodians of customers' and clients' data.

Barclays has a history of innovation spanning 
three industrial revolutions. We want to lead 
the change, being technological, regulatory, 
or customer driven, rather than simply 
responding to it. We are committed to 
providing a market leading digital offering 
to our customers and clients by making 
customer journeys simpler and more intuitive 
and offering and building digital platforms 
that benefit the whole society and economy.

See page 131 of this report for further  
information on material and emerging risks

Note
a IMF estimate, January 2019.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 09

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Our preparations for the departure of the UK from the EU

June
Begin evaluation of business model 
options post-Brexit

2016

February
Launch of formal programme to  
address Brexit contingency planning

October
Submission of draft Licence Extension 
Application to the ECB and the Central 
Bank of Ireland

2017

October
Licence extension approval for  
Barclays Bank Ireland attained from  
the Central Bank of Ireland

December
Migration of Germany Branch

Opened new office space in Dublin

2018

January
Court order received to enable use  
of Part VII transfer scheme

February
Migration of Spain and Sweden Branches

Euro payments technology transferred 
over from London to Frankfurt

Corporate Bank client migrations begin

March
Italy, Portugal, France, Netherlands 
branch migrations

Investment Banking, Markets and  
private banking: Onboarding to Barclays 
Bank Ireland and start of  
position migrations

2019

<Page End><Page Start>
10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Measuring success
Our performance measurement approach reflects the way  

in which management monitors the performance of the Group,  
allows for a holistic assessment and sets out our progress  

towards the strategic goals of the organisation

Our Group strategy
To build on our strength as a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank,  
anchored in our two home markets of the UK and US, with global reach

Our Values
Our values underpin our business and govern everything we do

We are a company of opportunity makers
Purpose and values

Our common Purpose is ‘Creating opportunities to rise'.  
Because when our customers, clients, colleagues and society 
rise, Barclays rises too. We measure and reward our people, not 
just on commercial results, but on how they live our Values and 
bring them to life every day.

Our Purpose and Values are central to Barclays. 
They drive everything we say and do. They 
are fundamental to the relationships we build 
with our colleagues, customers, clients and 
stakeholders and have been part of our DNA for 
over 328 years. They reflect our entrepreneurial 
spirit; our relentless quest for better; and our 
commitment to putting people first. Single-
minded application of our Purpose and Values, 
across all of our activities, continues to build the 
bank, providing the fundamentals upon which 
to build further success.

In April 2018, we completed one of the most 
complex restructurings ever undertaken by a 
bank. We now look to the future and have a 
renewed focus on growth and returns. The ring 
fencing undertaken is a necessary regulatory 
requirement, but in all the ways that make us 
Barclays, we remain one. We're united by a 
common set of Values and a single guiding 
Purpose, detailed here, along with the other 
elements that help us play our part in building 
a clear, creative and compelling Barclays.

Our Purpose
In today's world, a bank needs to 
demonstrate, both internally and externally, 
the honest and authentic way it goes about 
its business, and the value it brings to its 
stakeholders. Purpose-driven organisations 
have higher levels of employee satisfaction, 
higher levels of business performance, and 
a higher level of societal impact. 

We want to see Barclays playing a key role in 
restoring the professionalism of banking and 
want this bank to be respected and admired 
for the strength of its character; for our ability 
to foster trust between Barclays and its 
customers, clients and society. 

Our Purpose also needs to reflect our 
entrepreneurial spirit; our drive to leave things 
better; our customer and client centricity; and 
our commitments to colleagues and to society 
at large.

In the process of researching the new Purpose, 
we interviewed colleagues and found that a new 
Purpose would be welcomed in order to reflect 
our strategy and a renewed sense of optimism. 
Colleagues said the statement should re-
emphasise and build on the strength of existing 
values, and it should focus on what business we 
are in, and the impact we make. Our new 
Purpose therefore reflects this.

Our Purpose
Creating opportunities to rise

We are a company of opportunity makers, working together to  
help people rise – customers, clients, colleagues and society

Respect
We respect and value 
those we work with  

and the contribution 
they make

Integrity
We act fairly,  

ethically and openly  
in all we do 

Excellence
We use our energy,  
skills and resources  
to deliver the best 
sustainable results

Service
We put our  

customers and  
clients at the centre  

of what we do 

Stewardship
We're passionate  

about leaving things  
better than we  

found them

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 11

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Our Values
Our five Values (as shown in the chart 
opposite), hold us to account and guide us 
to behave in the right way. They have always 
underpinned our Purpose and will continue to 
do so. Because ‘Creating opportunities to rise' 
must never come at the cost of what is right. 
It will always be grounded in the deep-rooted 
Values of our organisation – Respect, Integrity, 
Service, Excellence and Stewardship.

The Barclays Code of Conduct – ‘The Barclays 
Way' – outlines the Values and Behaviours 
which govern our way of working across our 
business globally. It constitutes a reference 
point covering all aspects of our working 
relationships, specifically with other Barclays 
employees, customers and clients, governments 
and regulators, business partners, suppliers, 
competitors and the broader community. 
The objective is to define the way we think, 
work and act at Barclays to ensure we 
deliver against our Purpose of ‘Creating 
opportunities to rise'.

We want to see Barclays playing 
a key role in restoring the 
professionalism of banking and 
want this bank to be respected 
and admired for the strength of 
its character; for our ability to 
foster trust between Barclays 
and its customers, clients 
and society. 

The Barclays Way is aligned to the Code 
of Professional Conduct, published by the 
Chartered Banker Professional Standards 
Board, which sets out the ethical and 
professional attitudes and behaviours 
expected of bankers. Barclays subscribes 
to this code and is committed to ensuring 
the broad principles into our business 
continue to apply.

You can learn more online at: 
home.barclays/about-barclays/ 
barclays-values

Our culture and people 
The culture of Barclays is formed by 
its people and the choices they make. 
Fostering the right environment so that our 
people can flourish is critical to our success 
and to our values-based culture. The tone 
from the top has been clear throughout 
2018, including through the launch of 
the Purpose, colleague forums specifically 
focused on colleague initiatives that are 
making Barclays a great place to work 
and the inaugural CEO Rise Awards 
which recognised the outstanding 
work our colleagues did in 2018. 

We are proud of the progress we have made 
to promote respect, diversity and excellence 
in the workplace, and we see this progress 
reflected in our employee opinion survey 
results. The engagement of our colleagues 
has improved by four percentage points 
since 2016 (when we last asked all 
colleagues to take part in the survey 
at the same time) to 79% in 2018 and we 
were especially pleased to see that 92% of 
colleagues agreed that Barclays is focused 
on achieving good customer and client 
outcomes (up 9% points since 2016). In 
addition, 91% of colleagues said they felt 
they can be themselves at work, and when 
asked to describe the culture of Barclays, 
the top ten words selected by colleagues 
have all remained positive. Eighty-six per 
cent of our colleagues agree that it's safe 
to speak up, which is encouraging. To 
continue to encourage a culture which 
supports speaking up, the Group Executive 
Committee announced the creation of a 
centralised team and a new intranet site 
which sets out clearly how to raise a 
concern when things don't seem right.

We have continued to run key programmes 
and initiatives across the organisation that 
we know support our colleagues and help 
them to achieve excellent performance. 
These include Dynamic Working, 
sponsorship and development 
programmes, mental health and well-being 
awareness, and upgrading our technology 
and infrastructure. We are building the next 
generation workplace and we have had 
some great successes this year including 
the launch of our world-class Whippany 
campus and announcing our intention to 
build further campuses in Glasgow and 
India, which provide our colleagues the 
tools that they need to deliver outstanding 
service, and help us to attract and retain 
the very best talent in the global market. 
We are starting to build new skill sets across 
the firm, such as advanced analytics, digital 
and data and becoming more experimental, 
so we can be at the forefront of innovation.

From the trading floors to our branches, 
the way that we hire, train, develop and 
retain our colleagues, and the day-to-day 
decisions that they make, are intrinsic 
to embedding our culture and in turn, 
delivering the best for our customers, 
clients and local communities. For further 
details on the wide range of colleague 
and diversity initiatives that support 
our ambition to be the most accessible, 
inclusive and sought after employer, please 
refer to the People section on pages 93 
to 98.

<Page End><Page Start>
12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Playing to our strengths
Strategy

As a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with global reach, our 
goal is to support our stakeholders via a commercially successful 
business that generates long-term sustainable returns.

Building on our strong foundations
Our strategy is to build on our strength as a 
transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, 
anchored in our two home markets of the 
UK and US, with global reach. Our two clearly 
defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, provide diversification to our 
business model. We believe that combining 
consumer and wholesale businesses, as well 
as accessing geographic diversification, 
provides real advantages to both the Group 
and our investors and helps contribute to the 
delivery of more consistent and sustainable 
returns through the business cycle. The 
diversification should help to reduce volatility 
of income and earnings, generate higher 
returns through the cycle and improve 
the resilience of the Group as a whole.

Consistent with the objective of delivering 
long-term sustainable value for our 
stakeholders, we continue to pursue an 

approach to citizenship and sustainability 
that is integrated with our core business. By 
focusing on our core products and services, 
and our relationships, we can make the 
greatest positive impact.

You can read more about our approach within 
our performance metrics on pages 18 to 27.

Completion of the restructuring
In 2018, we successfully concluded our 
restructuring which saw us run-down the 
Non-Core, sell-down Barclays Africa, complete 
the Structural Reform Programme and create 
BX. These combined actions have significantly 
contributed to the simplification of the Group, 
helping to reduce drag on Group profitability 
and laying the foundations for Barclays to 
drive sustainable returns in its businesses. 

Delivering the Barclays of the future
Our focus is now on building the Barclays 
of the future, operating principally through 

Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
supported by BX. We remain fully committed 
to our model as a diversified bank and will 
remain a well-diversified financial institution 
providing excellent products and services to 
our customers and clients, underpinned by 
world class operations. We believe we are 
well positioned to deliver future growth 
and appropriate returns for shareholders.

We will remain a well-diversified 
financial institution providing 
excellent products and services 
to our customers and clients.

We continue to invest in our technological and 
digital capabilities, particularly in Barclays UK 
where we already have a strong digital 
proposition, Barclays Mobile Banking. We are 
using technology to deliver more meaningful 
customer relationships by transforming the 
way we interact with customers, leverage 
data analytics and utilise the opportunities 
presented by Open Banking. Delivering a 
truly customer-centric model is at the heart 
of Barclays UK's strategy.

Barclays International will continue to focus 
on markets and services where we have a 
competitive advantage, allocating capital 
where we see the ability to generate the most 
attractive risk-adjusted returns and investing 
where we see an opportunity to expand our 
market share. We see technology as a 
significant enabler across the investment 
banking business, particularly in Markets 
business lines, and will continue to invest 
appropriately, alongside recruiting the best 
talent as we build the Barclays of the future.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 13

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Strategic opportunities
Leveraging our geographic and business 
diversification, we see a significant 
opportunity to develop our payments 
capabilities across the Group. We aim to 
leverage our extensive experience and 
expertise developed through our leadership 
position in the UK to grow our market share 
in the US. In the Business to Business (B2B) 
space, we will continue to invest in our 
commercial payments capabilities, in order to 
meet the evolving needs of our customers, by 
leveraging innovative solutions and our data 
assets. On the consumer side, we are growing 
our mobile payment solutions in the UK. In 
the US, we see continued opportunity to build 
on our position as a Top 10 credit card issuer 
by receivables, as our targeted partnership 
model drives continued growth. Furthermore, 
we are investing in our US consumer banking 
proposition, where we have a growing, 
own-brand digital banking offering.

Our strategy is enhanced by the launch of 
BX. BX changes the way Barclays operates, 
enabling the delivery of world class services 
through a more standardised global operating 
model. We believe this will enable us to extract 
cross-Group cost synergies through scale, 
simpler processes, enhanced controls, a better 
co-ordinated service provision and more 
effective management of investment in our 
technology and processes. Cost transparency 
is expected to improve as well by applying 
a price-quantity approach, that transfers 
increasing cost ownership to the business. 
BX is a key component of Barclays' 
operating model. 

We remain focused on conduct, regulations 
and delivering enhanced controls
We aspire to be one of the world's most 
respected and well-regarded banks. We have 
worked hard to resolve outstanding legacy 
issues, while continuing to strengthen our 
control environment. We put our customers 
and clients at the heart of everything we do 
and seek to strengthen the trust of our 
customers, clients and wider society.

Barclays mobile app  
Our customers increasingly engage with 
Barclays using a smartphone and we see 
that our app, BMB, has become a vital part 
of their financial life. 

6.2 million customers use the Barclays app 
to manage their finances, c.700k more than 
last year, of which 5 million log into the app 
every week. On average each customer 
typically logs in every day and spends 21 
minutes on the app per month. In addition 
to the 1.5 million customers who use the 
Barclaycard app, last year our customers 
logged in a total of 2 billion times. 
3.6 million payments and 3 million transfers 
are made through the app every week, and 
we complete 155k personal loan fulfilments 
a year providing convenience and simplicity 
for our customers. In 2018 we embedded 
the ability to open up savings accounts 
which led to 200k customers opening an 
account via the Barclays app. 

The app supports our customers through 
their life moments, for example, buying a 
home starts with helping customers save 
for a deposit, not just when they need a 
mortgage. We also help customers with 
relevant offers and services to help them 
move in and settle down in their new home. 

We will continue to evolve the Barclays app 
around the theme of being a one-stop-shop 
for all the money management needs our 
customers have. We intend to do so 
through our investments in cutting edge 
technology and data capabilities. Just a few 
of the recent examples include; current 
account aggregation; transaction 
categorisation; the ability to turn off 
spending in merchant categories including 
gambling and premium rate phone 

numbers; and the functionality in the app to 
freeze cards if customers believe it to be lost 
or stolen.

Current account aggregation was one of 
the first of many innovations made possible 
by Open Banking. We were the first UK bank 
to launch this feature in our app in 
September 2018. Our customers can see 
current accounts from other UK high street 
banks safely and securely. We are planning 
to expand this functionality by adding more 
banks, aggregating other types of accounts 
like savings accounts and credit cards, and 
introducing the ability to initiate payments 
from accounts held with other providers 
from within the Barclays app.

A key need for our customers is the ability 
to understand and manage their spending. 
Customers will soon be able to undertake 
further analysis of spending by category, 
view the top merchants they spend the 
most money with, and get meaningful 
insights on their spending. This will further 
enable our customers to make informed 
decisions on how they manage their 
finances. 

We also intend to bring innovation from the 
Fintech community around the world. 
Working with start-ups coming through the 
Barclays RISE accelerator as well as with 
other Fintech partners, we continue to 
gather customer feedback on innovative 
features through our Launchpad app. One 
such recent example is our partnership with 
Bink, bringing to life payment card linked 
loyalty. 

We will continue to listen to our customers 
to make the Barclays app the best money 
management experience in the UK.

<Page End><Page Start>
14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Working together to help people rise
Business model

Our business model enables us to leverage resource and 
relationships to produce long-term sustainable outputs for 
our stakeholders. These outputs provide combined value 
for our stakeholders, helping people to rise.

We believe our diversified business model 
through business line, geography and 
customer, helps enhance our resilience 
to changes in the external environment, 
and captures the benefits of diversification 
through the efficient delivery of cross-group 
synergies and funding.

Barclays operates via two clearly defined 
divisions – Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, supported by BX.

Barclays UK is a personal and business 
banking franchise with true scale, built 
around our customers' needs with innovation 
at its core. It comprises our UK retail banking 
operations, our UK consumer credit cards 
business, our UK-based wealth offering, 
and banking for smaller businesses.

Barclays International is a diversified 
transatlantic business comprising our corporate 
banking franchise, which is market leading in 
the UK with strong international growth 
opportunities, our top-tier investment bank, 
a strong and growing US and international 
cards business, our international wealth 
offering, and leading payments capability 
through both corporate banking and the 
Barclaycard merchant acquiring expertise. 
Barclays International has scale in wholesale 
banking and consumer lending, strength in 
our key markets, excellent growth potential, 
and good balance in its revenue streams, 
delivering further resilience and diversification.

BX provides state of the art, simple, 
efficient, innovative and secure operation 
and technology services which deliver 
customer and shareholder value. BX achieves 
this by building world-wide connectivity, 
standardising services, creating synergies 
and cost efficiencies, fostering innovation, 
leveraging technology Group-wide and 
ensuring resilience and security. It also builds 
trust through ensuring resilience and security, 
whilst creating capacity for investment.

For further information on our divisions, see:

Barclays UK see pages 30 to 33

Barclays International see pages 34 to 37

Barclays Execution Services see pages 38 to 39

Barclays International

Ba
rc

la
ys

 U
K

Ba
rcla

ys Ex
ecution Services

Barclays

We draw on the following to support 
our activities and deliver value to our 
stakeholders:
■■ the strength and reputation of our brand 

– serving customers and clients for over 
328 years

■■ a strong, well-funded and diversified 
balance sheet

■■ customer and client trust and depth 
of relationships

■■ our geographic focus: firmly anchored 
in the two financial centres of London 
and New York, with global reach

■■ a track record of successfully innovating 
for customers and clients

■■ the skills and expertise of our people 
and our shared values which inform 
the way we work and how we act.

We aim to provide superior services to 
help customers and clients create, grow 
and protect wealth in a sustainable way:
Barclays' customers and clients include: 
individuals, small and medium-sized 
businesses, large corporates and multi-
national companies; financial institutions 
and banks; institutional investors, funds, 
sovereign institutions and governments.

We offer:
■■ a safe place to save, invest and manage 

cash and payments
■■ funding for purchases and growth
■■ management of business and 

financial risks
■■ financial and business support 
■■ innovative digital and technology 

capabilities.

Resource and RelationshipsResource and relationships

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 15

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Company
■■ We support our stakeholders via a 

commercially successful business that 
generates long-term sustainable returns.

■■ We work together with regulators to help 
reduce risk in the industry and provide 
a more sustainable banking landscape 
over the long term.

Customers and clients
■■ We offer superior service through a broad 

range of products to enable customers and 
clients to achieve their goals, and engaging 
with customers and clients in the way the 
want to engage with us.

■■ We develop strong relationships with 
customers and clients built on trust.

Colleagues
■■ We help our people have challenging 

and fulfilling careers in a values-driven 
organisation.

■■ We help our colleagues develop themselves 
and empower them to work in a way that 
suits their lives and supports our business. 

Citizenship
■■ We deliver financing solutions in social and 

environmental sectors, and enable access 
to financial and digital empowerment for 
individuals and companies. 

■■ We help provide employment and growth 
in the economies in which we operate.

■■ We engage with governments and society 
to address societal issues and needs.

Financial

Non-financial

Financial
■■ Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) of greater than 9% 

in 2019 and greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation 
and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%.

■■ CET1 ratio of c.13%.
■■ Group costs, excluding litigation and conduct, of £13.6–£13.9bn 

in 2019, and a target cost: income ratio below 60% over time.

Non-financial
■■ Building trust with our customers and clients.
■■ Successfully innovating and developing products.
■■ Providing accessible products and services.
■■ Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce.
■■ Motivating engaged and enabled colleagues.
■■ Enabling a positive conduct and a values-based environment.
■■ Making decisions and doing business that provides our 

stakeholders with access to a prosperous future.
■■ Proactively manage the environmental and societal impacts 

of our business.

See pages 44 to 46 for our non-financial information statement See pages 18 to 27 this report for further insights

Value createdOutputs

<Page End><Page Start>
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Engaging stakeholders for feedback and direction
Stakeholder engagement

At Barclays, stakeholder engagement is key 
to ensure responsible balanced decisions 
are made. We provide opportunity for 
engagement through the year via different 
forums and channels to help shape the 
direction of our business, aligned to 
stakeholders needs and expectations. 

Through engagement, we aim to build trust 
and confidence, promote participation and 
influence, identify and promote robust risk 
management, and ultimately make decisions 
with shared benefits for our stakeholders. 

By having an open and frequent dialogue 
across stakeholders, we have developed 
a clearer understanding of stakeholder 
requirements and ambitions and how 
we can best address these needs. 

Our performance measures build 
on our stakeholder engagement
Our performance measurement framework 
builds on our stakeholder engagement to 
align Barclays performance to their ambitions.

We reflect a balance of key financial 
performance metrics and broader strategic 
non-financial measures which focus on the 
impact we have on our customers and clients, 
colleagues, and the benefit we bring to society 
via our citizenship activity. These measures are 
underpinned by how we behave towards all 
our stakeholders, through our conduct and 
our culture. 

To assess our performance we use a number 
of sources including dashboards of our 
performance metrics and measures, regular 
management reporting and external measures 
to provide a balanced review of performance 
during the year, while additionally monitoring 
for emerging trends.

Performance against our financial metrics and 
strategic non-financial performance measures 
is directly linked to executive remuneration, 
and influences incentive outcomes for 
Barclays' employees more broadly. This 
approach supports us in our work to deliver 
positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.

Please refer to the Remuneration report 
on pages 99 to 126 for further information. 

The following pages detail the performance 
of the Group for 2018. 

What is our ambition for our stakeholders? How did we engage them? What were the key topics raised? How did we respond?

Company
Achieving our targets is consistent with our aim of generating  
long-term sustainable returns for the shareholders: 
■■ Group return on tangible equity* >9% in 2019 >10% in 2020
■■ CET1 ratio at c.13%
■■ Group cost guidance of £13.6–£13.9bn in 2019†.  

Targeting cost:income ratio below 60% over time

* Excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%
† Excluding litigation and conduct

We engaged with our shareholders and stakeholders 
at our AGM in May 2018, with the Board providing 
a review of the performance of the Group, 
and providing opportunity for interaction 
and shareholder voting on resolutions. 
We held conference calls or webcasts for our 
quarterly results briefings and an in-person 
presentation for our 2017 full year results in February 
2018, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director.
We have an open and regular engagement with our 
regulators, ensuring clarity and transparency, and 
sharing views and expectations of Barclays.

Discussions included, but were not limited to: 
■■ improved operating performance of the 

Group in the first year post-restructuring
■■ continued digitisation of the bank
■■ ongoing investment in technology
■■ value being created by Barclays Execution Services 

in improving the mix and efficiency of our cost 
base.

Investors also discussed topics including the 
strategy, prudent risk management and steps taken 
to mitigate the potential impact from the uncertainty 
surrounding Brexit, as well as climate change and 
ESG factors.

■■ We placed greater emphasis on regular new and 
existing shareholder engagement with a broader 
range of divisional management presenting to 
investors, deepening understanding of Barclays' 
investment case, and promoting greater 
awareness and understanding of our operating 
businesses.

■■ We published our Environment and Climate 
Change Statement to clarify our position and 
commitment to supporting the transition 
to less carbon intensive sources of energy.

■■ These actions help promote dialogue on 
longer-term strategic developments in addition 
to recent financial performance of the Group.

Customers and clients
■■ Building trust with our customers and clients,  

such that they are happy to recommend us to others.
■■ Successfully innovating and developing products and  

services that meet their needs.
■■ Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way,  

ensuring excellent customer and client experience.

Our front-line colleagues are integral in engaging 
with our customers and clients, and we gain 
invaluable insight to how our customers feel about 
our service and what we could do better.
By continually monitoring customer feedback, we 
aim to understand what features customers really 
want and need, as well as any frustration they may 
be feeling, which we can work to either develop or 
rectify.
In developing our propositions, we look to take a 
customer-centric approach and put customers and 
clients at the heart of the process to understand 
what they really need and would value and build our 
products and services accordingly.

■■ Innovation to meet our customer's rapidly 
evolving needs and expectations. As competition 
intensifies, with new FinTech and challengers 
entering the market, the pace of change is faster 
than ever and we continue to invest to meet this 
challenge.

■■ The complaints we receive help us identify areas 
in our business which need to be improved. 
Including processes and services we deliver, 
through to the underlying policies.

■■ For our business banking clients, managing cash 
flow and raising capital for growth are two key 
challenges they face, especially for those without 
premises to offer for a secured loan.

■■ We will look to improve customer experience by; 
accelerating automation; building value and image 
perceptions; and delivering strong customer 
outcomes to grow relationships.

■■ Accessibility – new services were launched 
including: the ability for deaf customers to contact 
us by telephone with the assistance of a 
third-party interpreter, online support page for 
people experiencing mental health concerns, 
and a wide-range of considerations for older 
customers including fraud and scams awareness 
and accessible banking services.

Colleagues
Promoting and maintaining:
■■ a diverse and inclusive workforce in which colleagues  

of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the  
opportunity to be successful and achieve their potential

■■ engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ a positive conduct and values-based environment.

During the year, we engaged with our people 
through a number of forums and channels, to gather 
thoughts, opinions and feedback on how we are 
doing, with the opportunity to ask questions directly 
to our senior leadership teams. These include the 
annual Employee Opinion Survey supported by 
quarterly ‘pulse checks', local colleague forums, 
town halls, and ‘skip-level' meetings where senior 
leaders meet with small groups of employees not in 
their direct management. More recently we have 
seen an uptake in reverse mentoring sessions with 
senior leaders being mentored by more junior 
colleagues.

■■ The ability to work flexibly continues to be key 
to unlocking colleague engagement (colleague 
engagement of those who work dynamically is 
up four percentage points on overall engagement 
score in 2018).

■■ Scores on enablement, e.g. tools to do the job 
have been historically low and continue to be a 
key area of focus. However, there has been an 
improvement year on year, highlighting that our 
continued investment is having an impact.

■■ Continued focus on dynamic working: We 
published a white paper on Dynamic Working to 
help other organisations understand the benefits.

■■ Reducing under-investment and duplication: 
We have invested in hardware and software 
collaboration tools designed to make it easier 
and more efficient for colleagues to work.

■■ We have focused on mental health through our  
Be Well campaign to launch new training for all 
colleagues and a launch of a film of senior leaders 
discussing their experiences of mental health to 
support with tackling the stigma and support our 
colleagues with managing stress in the workplace.

Citizenship
■■ Making decisions and doing business that provides  

our clients, customers, shareholders, colleagues and the  
communities which we serve with access to a prosperous  
and sustainable future.

■■ Proactively managing the environmental and societal  
impacts of our business.

We engage in a continual dialogue with non-
governmental organisations (NGOs) and other 
interest groups, to improve our understanding of 
emerging and existing environmental and societal 
topics. We regularly engaged with our stakeholders 
through participation in forums and round tables and 
joined industry, sector and specific topic debates. We 
explored citizenship and sustainability agendas, 
where collaboration and joint action are needed.
We continue to engage with these stakeholder 
groups on an ongoing basis through Barclays' 
Sustainability and Citizenship teams.

■■ Green finance and supporting clients through 
the transition to a low carbon economy.

■■ Responsible financing for companies in sensitive 
energy sectors.

■■ Societal impacts and work in the communities 
in which we operate.

■■ Accessibility of our products and services to all 
demographics, and treating customers fairly.

We responded on key topics in 2018 through 
a number of communications and business 
developments including:
■■ continuing to grow our suite of green products
■■ releasing statements on coal, World Heritage 

Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, and a comprehensive 
Energy and Climate Change Statement (which 
replaced and strengthened the Coal Statement 
published previously)

■■ maintaining ongoing dialogue with NGOs and civil 
society regarding financing extractive industries

■■ enhancing transparency around our transition 
journey to a low carbon economy, and the support 
we provide to clients.See pages 18 to 27 of this report  

for further insights

Barclays aims to create value for all of our stakeholders, balanced across both the  
short and the long term. We engage with our stakeholders to better inform them of 
our activities to create mutually supportive opportunities and outcomes for them.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 17

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

What is our ambition for our stakeholders? How did we engage them? What were the key topics raised? How did we respond?

Company
Achieving our targets is consistent with our aim of generating  
long-term sustainable returns for the shareholders: 
■■ Group return on tangible equity* >9% in 2019 >10% in 2020
■■ CET1 ratio at c.13%
■■ Group cost guidance of £13.6–£13.9bn in 2019†.  

Targeting cost:income ratio below 60% over time

* Excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%
† Excluding litigation and conduct

We engaged with our shareholders and stakeholders 
at our AGM in May 2018, with the Board providing 
a review of the performance of the Group, 
and providing opportunity for interaction 
and shareholder voting on resolutions. 
We held conference calls or webcasts for our 
quarterly results briefings and an in-person 
presentation for our 2017 full year results in February 
2018, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director.
We have an open and regular engagement with our 
regulators, ensuring clarity and transparency, and 
sharing views and expectations of Barclays.

Discussions included, but were not limited to: 
■■ improved operating performance of the 

Group in the first year post-restructuring
■■ continued digitisation of the bank
■■ ongoing investment in technology
■■ value being created by Barclays Execution Services 

in improving the mix and efficiency of our cost 
base.

Investors also discussed topics including the 
strategy, prudent risk management and steps taken 
to mitigate the potential impact from the uncertainty 
surrounding Brexit, as well as climate change and 
ESG factors.

■■ We placed greater emphasis on regular new and 
existing shareholder engagement with a broader 
range of divisional management presenting to 
investors, deepening understanding of Barclays' 
investment case, and promoting greater 
awareness and understanding of our operating 
businesses.

■■ We published our Environment and Climate 
Change Statement to clarify our position and 
commitment to supporting the transition 
to less carbon intensive sources of energy.

■■ These actions help promote dialogue on 
longer-term strategic developments in addition 
to recent financial performance of the Group.

Customers and clients
■■ Building trust with our customers and clients,  

such that they are happy to recommend us to others.
■■ Successfully innovating and developing products and  

services that meet their needs.
■■ Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way,  

ensuring excellent customer and client experience.

Our front-line colleagues are integral in engaging 
with our customers and clients, and we gain 
invaluable insight to how our customers feel about 
our service and what we could do better.
By continually monitoring customer feedback, we 
aim to understand what features customers really 
want and need, as well as any frustration they may 
be feeling, which we can work to either develop or 
rectify.
In developing our propositions, we look to take a 
customer-centric approach and put customers and 
clients at the heart of the process to understand 
what they really need and would value and build our 
products and services accordingly.

■■ Innovation to meet our customer's rapidly 
evolving needs and expectations. As competition 
intensifies, with new FinTech and challengers 
entering the market, the pace of change is faster 
than ever and we continue to invest to meet this 
challenge.

■■ The complaints we receive help us identify areas 
in our business which need to be improved. 
Including processes and services we deliver, 
through to the underlying policies.

■■ For our business banking clients, managing cash 
flow and raising capital for growth are two key 
challenges they face, especially for those without 
premises to offer for a secured loan.

■■ We will look to improve customer experience by; 
accelerating automation; building value and image 
perceptions; and delivering strong customer 
outcomes to grow relationships.

■■ Accessibility – new services were launched 
including: the ability for deaf customers to contact 
us by telephone with the assistance of a 
third-party interpreter, online support page for 
people experiencing mental health concerns, 
and a wide-range of considerations for older 
customers including fraud and scams awareness 
and accessible banking services.

Colleagues
Promoting and maintaining:
■■ a diverse and inclusive workforce in which colleagues  

of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the  
opportunity to be successful and achieve their potential

■■ engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ a positive conduct and values-based environment.

During the year, we engaged with our people 
through a number of forums and channels, to gather 
thoughts, opinions and feedback on how we are 
doing, with the opportunity to ask questions directly 
to our senior leadership teams. These include the 
annual Employee Opinion Survey supported by 
quarterly ‘pulse checks', local colleague forums, 
town halls, and ‘skip-level' meetings where senior 
leaders meet with small groups of employees not in 
their direct management. More recently we have 
seen an uptake in reverse mentoring sessions with 
senior leaders being mentored by more junior 
colleagues.

■■ The ability to work flexibly continues to be key 
to unlocking colleague engagement (colleague 
engagement of those who work dynamically is 
up four percentage points on overall engagement 
score in 2018).

■■ Scores on enablement, e.g. tools to do the job 
have been historically low and continue to be a 
key area of focus. However, there has been an 
improvement year on year, highlighting that our 
continued investment is having an impact.

■■ Continued focus on dynamic working: We 
published a white paper on Dynamic Working to 
help other organisations understand the benefits.

■■ Reducing under-investment and duplication: 
We have invested in hardware and software 
collaboration tools designed to make it easier 
and more efficient for colleagues to work.

■■ We have focused on mental health through our  
Be Well campaign to launch new training for all 
colleagues and a launch of a film of senior leaders 
discussing their experiences of mental health to 
support with tackling the stigma and support our 
colleagues with managing stress in the workplace.

Citizenship
■■ Making decisions and doing business that provides  

our clients, customers, shareholders, colleagues and the  
communities which we serve with access to a prosperous  
and sustainable future.

■■ Proactively managing the environmental and societal  
impacts of our business.

We engage in a continual dialogue with non-
governmental organisations (NGOs) and other 
interest groups, to improve our understanding of 
emerging and existing environmental and societal 
topics. We regularly engaged with our stakeholders 
through participation in forums and round tables and 
joined industry, sector and specific topic debates. We 
explored citizenship and sustainability agendas, 
where collaboration and joint action are needed.
We continue to engage with these stakeholder 
groups on an ongoing basis through Barclays' 
Sustainability and Citizenship teams.

■■ Green finance and supporting clients through 
the transition to a low carbon economy.

■■ Responsible financing for companies in sensitive 
energy sectors.

■■ Societal impacts and work in the communities 
in which we operate.

■■ Accessibility of our products and services to all 
demographics, and treating customers fairly.

We responded on key topics in 2018 through 
a number of communications and business 
developments including:
■■ continuing to grow our suite of green products
■■ releasing statements on coal, World Heritage 

Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, and a comprehensive 
Energy and Climate Change Statement (which 
replaced and strengthened the Coal Statement 
published previously)

■■ maintaining ongoing dialogue with NGOs and civil 
society regarding financing extractive industries

■■ enhancing transparency around our transition 
journey to a low carbon economy, and the support 
we provide to clients.

<Page End><Page Start>
18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

 
Company

Key outcomes - we will look to achieve:
■■ Our financial targets, consistent with our 

aim of generating long-term sustainable 
returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC.

How we measure success
We disclosed progress against our financial 
targets quarterly: 
■■ Group RoTE >9% in 2019 and >10% in 2020
■■ CET1 ratio c.13%
■■ Group operating expenses, excluding 

litigation and conduct, of £13.6–13.9bn in 
2019, and to have a target cost: income 
ratio below 60% over time.

RoTE measures our ability to generate 
acceptable returns for shareholders. It is 
calculated as profit after tax attributable 
to ordinary shareholders, including an 
adjustment for the tax credit recorded 
in reserves in respect of other equity 
instruments, as a proportion of average 
shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling 
interests and other equity instruments 
adjusted for the deduction of intangible 
assets and goodwill.

This measure indicates the return generated 
by the management of the business based on 
shareholders' tangible equity. Achieving a 
target RoTE demonstrates the organisation's 
ability to execute its strategy and align 
management's interests with the 
shareholders'. RoTE lies at the heart of the 
Group's capital allocation and performance 
management process.

The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital 
strength and resilience of Barclays. The 
Group's capital management objective is 
to maximise shareholder value by prudently 
managing the level and mix of its capital. 
This is to ensure the Group and all of its 
subsidiaries are appropriately capitalised 
relative to their minimum regulatory and 
stressed capital requirements, and to support 
the Group's risk appetite, growth, and 
strategic options while seeking to maintain 
a robust credit proposition for the Group 
and its subsidiaries.

The ratio expresses Barclays' capital as a 
percentage of risk weighted assets (RWAs), as  
defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital 
Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) – an EU 
directive prescribing capital adequacy and 
liquidity requirements, and is part of the 
regulatory framework governing how banks 
and depository institutions are supervised.

Barclays views operating expenses as a key 
strategic area for banks; those which actively 
manage costs and control them effectively 
will  gain a strong competitive advantage. 

The cost:income ratio measures operating 
expenses as a percentage of total income 
and is used to assess the productivity of 
the business operations.

How we are doing
Group RoTE
RoTE for the Group, excluding litigation and 
conduct, was 8.5%. Based on a CET1 ratio 
of 13% this would have been 8.3%.

CET1
The Group's CET1 ratio continued to be at the 
end-state target of c.13%. The ratio decreased 
to 13.2% (2017: 13.3%), as CET1 capital 
decreased to £41.1bn and RWAs remained 
broadly stable at £311.9bn, as underlying 
profit generation of £4.2bn was more than 
offset by £2.1bn of litigation and conduct 
charges, as the bank resolved legacy matters, 
£1.7bn for ordinary dividends and AT1 
coupons paid and foreseen, and £1.0bn from 
the redemption of capital instruments.

Operating expenses and cost: income ratio 
Group operating expenses were £13.9bn† in 
line with 2018 guidance, while Total operating 
expenses were £16.2bn (2017: £15.5bn), 
including litigation and conduct, and a charge 
of £140m in relation to the equalisation of 
Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (GMP). 

The Group cost: income ratio including 
litigation and conduct increased to 77% 
(2017: 73%) due to stable income and a 5% 
increase in total operating expenses, which 
included litigation and conduct charges for an 
RMBS settlement and PPI provisions. 

For further information on the financial 
performance of the Group, please see page 
224.

Measuring performance
Key performance indicators

Our performance measurement framework undertakes a holistic assessment 
and sets out our progress towards the strategic goals of the organisation.  
Our framework is focused on achieving positive and sustainable outcomes  
for our diverse group of stakeholders.

* Excluding litigation and conduct
† Excluding litigation and conduct and Guaranteed 

Minimum Pensions (GMP) charges

How we are doing
Group Return on Tangible Equity* 
(RoTE)

8.5%
2017 (1.2)%

CET1

 13.2%
2017 13.3%

Cost: income ratio

77%
2017 73%

Operating expenses†

£13.9bn
2017 £14.2bn

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 19

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Customers  
and Clients

Key outcomes we will look to 
achieve include:
■■ building trust with our customers and 

clients, such that they are happy to 
recommend us to others

■■ successfully innovating and developing 
products and services that meet their needs

■■ offering suitable products and services in an 
accessible way, ensuring excellent customer 
and client experience.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, 
but are not limited to:
■■ Net Promoter Score® (NPS)* 
■■ client rankings and market sharesa

■■ complaints performance
■■ lending volumes provided to customers 

and clients
■■ digital engagement
■■ conduct indicators.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement
Net Promoter Scores (NPS)b
The net promoter metrics across our brands 
are a view of how willing customers are to 
recommend our products and services to 
others, indicating how satisfied they are with 
their overall experience with us. Barclays 
Relationship NPS increased to +17 (2017: +14) 
due to continued investment into our 
customer experience, value propositions and 
consumer campaigns that not only strengthen 
our brand but work to improve the financial 
and security awareness of our customers. 
Barclaycard UK relationship NPS stayed flat 
over the year, closing at +9 at year-end (2017: 
+9). The Relationship NPS of the US Consumer 
Bank increased further to +38 (2017: +36) 
supported by our customer centric culture 
and improvements in our products and digital 
experience.

Client rankings and market sharesc
The Banking franchise maintained its sixth 
place ranking by fee share (2017: sixth) in our 
UK and US home markets across M&A, equity 
and debt capital markets, and retained its top 3 
position in the UK (Dealogic).

Our Markets franchise delivered strong 
results, maintaining its fourth place ranking 
in Global Fixed Income market share 
(Greenwich Associates).

Ninety-five per cent of our largest UK corporate 
clients considered the service they receive from 
Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, 
up from 88% in 2017 (Charterhouse).

Lending volumes provided to 
customers and clientsd 
Barclays continued to be an important provider 
of financial services to UK businesses. We 
provided around £63bn of lending, down 6% 
on 2017, as we continued to exert high levels of 
discipline in capital allocation decisions as part 
of our returns agenda, strengthening the 
long-term sustainability of the business for all 
our stakeholders. 

How we are doing
Barclays Net Promoter Score® (NPS)

+17
2017 +14

Lending to UK businesses

c.£63bn
2017 c.66bn

Barclays UK complaints including PPI

down 1% YoY
2017 down 7% YoY

Notes
a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays' internal business structure 
b NPS measures customer experience and facilitates benchmarking. It is widely used in banking and other industries and utilises a mixed-methodology to ensure full 

representativeness of financial behaviours across the UK population. The basis of Barclays Relationship NPS has been a 12-month rolling average to minimise data fluctuations. 
 Source: UK: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2018. Adults interviewed: 8,765 Barclays main Current Account holders (Barclays Relationship NPS), and 4,741 Barclays main 

Credit Card holders (Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS); US: Satmetrix, average of two semi-annual results
c Charterhouse Research based on 683 interviews (173 Barclays £25m+) with companies turning over between £25m and £1bn carried out in year end 2018. Survey data is 

weighted by turnover and region to be representative of the total market in Great Britain. % Responses – Excellent, Very Good and Good.
d Best Lender for Buy to Let (Moneywise), Best lender for Remortgage (Moneywise), Best Lender for Large loans (Moneywise), Best National Bank (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), 

Best Intermediary Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), Best Overall Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), Best Buy to Let Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), Mortgage Lender of 
the Year (Mortgage Introducer), Best Offset Mortgage Lender (What Mortgage), Best remortgage lender (Personal Finance) 

* ®Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix 
Systems, Inc.

<Page End><Page Start>
20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Measuring performance
Key performance indicators

A vibrant small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) sector is a vital ingredient for a healthy 
market economy. Barclays UK provided new 
lending of £2.8bn to SMEs, 3% more than last 
year and completed over 110,000 mortgages 
for customers, worth over £23bn, up 1.5% 
year-on-year. Our Mortgage business won 
10 awards in 2018, confirming our continued 
focus on customer experience.

Digital engagement
In the era of constant technological 
development, it is crucial for us to provide 
a market leading digital offering and digitally 
engage with our customers. By the end of 
2018, around 10.8m customers and clients 
in the UK were using our digital services on a 
regular basis, 6% more than in 2017 with our 
Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) user base 
increasing from 5.5m to nearly 6.2m.

In 2018, 69% of the US Consumer Bank 
customers are now digitally active (vs. 66% 
in 2017), and 57% now receive paperless 
statements. Our strategy and customer 
centricity is encouraged by the prestigious 
third place in J.D. Power's 2018 Credit Card 
Satisfaction Survey. To maintain and improve 
this position, we continue to work on building 
our single, integrated native app to provide 
our customers an effortless experience. 
The app will allow customers to apply for 
products, manage their accounts, and track 
rewards earned all in one convenient place.

In the Open Banking environment, we are 
committed to serve a new type of client: 
developers. Through our API Exchange, we 
received more than 8.4m calls or requests 
to our open APIsa in 2018.

BMB is the most used mobile banking app in 
the UK (source: eBenchmarkers) and was the 
first core banking app from a major UK high 
street bank to enable account aggregation 
through Open Banking technology. This 
means that customers can now view their 
balances and transactions from other banks in 
BMB without having to share their online or 
mobile banking credentials. Further to this, we 
also improved the functionality of our app 
throughout 2018 to better help our customers 
manage their money, with a temporary 
card-freeze feature for misplaced debit cards, 
a calendar view of regular payments and the 
ability to open an Everyday Saver account 
entirely in BMB. This has proved particularly 
popular, with over 60% of Everyday Saver 

accounts being opened digitally this year. 
We will continue to add great new features 
to BMB in the near future, including spend 
categorisation and financial insights.

Areas of continued focus
Complaints performance
In Barclays UK, we continue to focus on 
customer experience by transforming 
customer journeys. Our underlying complaint 
volumes reduced 9% year-on-year. However, 
we have seen an increase of 2% in PPI 
complaints. Total Barclays UK complaint 
volumes (including PPI) were down 1% 
year-on-year. Barclays International complaint 
volumes have shown a small increase (2%) 
year on year. The level of complaints we 
receive remains too high and reducing them 
further will continue to be a key priority for 
us in 2019

Conduct indicators
Barclays has operated at the overall set 
tolerance for Conduct risk throughout 2018. 
The tolerance is assessed by the business 
through key indicators which are aggregated 
and provide an overall rating which is reported 
to the Board Reputation Committee as part of 
the Conduct Dashboard. We remain focused 
on the continuous improvement being made 
to manage Conduct risk effectively, with an 
emphasis on enhancing governance and 
management information to facilitate the 
identification of risks at earlier stages. For 
further information on the management and 
performance of Conduct risk, please refer to 
the Risk review section on pages 146 and 212.

Note
a Open APIs are publicly available application programming interfaces that provide developers programmatic access to our products and services and use them in third-party 

applications. For example, a bookshop can integrate Barclays' payment initiation API into its web shop. After selecting the desired book, the customer is directed to her bank to 
authorise the payment without using a card or sharing any details with the bookshop. We make our open APIs available on the Barclays API Exchange website.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 21

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

 
Colleagues

Key outcomes we will look to 
achieve include:
Promoting and maintaining:
■■ a diverse and inclusive workforce in which 

employees of all backgrounds are treated 
equally and have the opportunity to be 
successful and achieve their potential

■■ engaged and enabled colleagues
■■ a positive conduct and values-based culture.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, 
but are not limited to:
■■ diversity and inclusion statistics
■■ employee sustainable engagement 

survey scores
■■ conduct and culture measures.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement
A diverse and inclusive workforce 
We continue to focus heavily on our culture, 
and in particular how we provide the right 
environment for all of our colleagues to feel 
able to bring their whole selves to work. We 
were delighted that 91% of our employees 
who responded in our Your View employee 
opinion survey agreed that we had made real 
progress again this year. 

We were also proud to be recognised through 
a number of external awards in 2018:
■■ The Times Top 50 Employers for Women 

2018
■■ Stonewall Top Global Employer for LGBT 

employees, 2018
■■ Working Families UK Best for Embedded 

flexibility for Dynamic Working, 2018
■■ UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, 

2018
■■ Department of Work and Pensions Disability 

Confident Leader, 2017 to 2020
■■ Business in the Community Best Employer 

for Race 2018.

Engaged and enabled colleagues
An engaged workforce is critical to the 
success and delivery of our strategy. We 
continue to measure this with our annual 
Employee Opinion Survey, Your View, using 
the outputs to help shape our human capital 
agenda and areas of executive focus across all 
of our businesses and functions supported by 
small ‘pulse check' surveys each quarter. 

This year, our overall sustainable engagement 
increased to 79%, up four points from 2016, 
when we last had our all colleague survey. Our 
scores around Energise and Engage were also 
up five and four points on 2016 to 83% and 
88%, respectively, which is above Financial 
Services Companies norms and our Enable 
score was up five percentage points to 65%.

A positive conduct and value-based culture
We have continued to make good progress 
on embedding our culture measurement 
framework and are now working with our 
businesses to develop further metrics to track 
and monitor performance on a more granular 
level which will be implemented in 2019. 

We saw a notable increase on the question, 
‘Is it safe to speak up at Barclays', which went 
from 77% to 86%. Other key highlights which 
also demonstrate the continued embedding of 
the Values of Respect and Stewardship 
include: “Barclays is focused on achieving 
good customer and client outcomes” (92% 
favourable, 2016: 83%); “I would recommend 
Barclays as a good place to work” (83% 
favourable, 2016: 76%); and “I can be myself 
at work” (91% favourable. A new question 
for 2018).

Areas of continued focus
A diverse and inclusive workforce 
Gender diversity, particularly at senior 
leadership levels within the organisation 
remains our focus. At the end of 2012 the 
percentage of women in our senior leadership 
roles (Managing Directors and Directors) was 
20% and we set ourselves a target to reach 
26% by the end of 2018. The 2018 year-end 

How we are doing
Sustainable engagement  
of colleagues

79%
2017 78%, 2016 75%

Women in senior leadership roles

24%
2017 23%

“I would recommend Barclays  
as a good place to work”

86%
2017 82%

<Page End><Page Start>
22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Measuring performance
Key performance indicators

position was 24% at the Barclays Group level 
(2017: 23%), the 2% gap can be attributed to 
the divestment of our Africa business. Our 
2021 target is to reach 28% women in our 
senior leadership roles with each of our 
businesses developing local actions to help 
reach this Group-wide target.

We report progress on the women in senior 
leadership target annually to HM Treasury 
as part of our commitment to the Women 
in Finance Charter. We have committed to the 
Hampton-Alexander recommended targets 
of 33% female representation on the Board of 
Directors by 2020 year-end, and 33% female 
representation across the Group Executive 
Committee and direct reports by 2020 
year-end. We are currently at 27% (2017: 
21%), and 28% (2017: 26%), respectively.

This year, we have again increased our 
activities to support the development of our 
senior female leadership population and we 
expanded our Encore! Programme to attract 
more women returners. At our graduate level, 
the percentage of female hires in 2018 was 
37% across the Barclays Group (2017: 40%).

Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is 
required to report on the gender breakdown 
of our employees and ‘senior managers'. Of 
our global workforce of 83,500 (47,500 male, 
36,000 female), 555 were senior managers 
(401 male, 154 female), which include Officers 
of the Group, certain direct reports of the 
Chief Executive, heads of major business 
units, certain senior Managing Directors, 
and directors on the boards of undertakings 
of the Group, but exclude individuals who sit 
as Directors on the Board of the Company. 
The  definition of senior managers within 
this disclosure has a narrower scope than 
the Managing Director and Director female 
representation data provided above.

Engaged and enabled colleagues
Our score on the Enable pillar, which 
measures how Barclays is helping colleagues 
to meet challenges and overcome obstacles, 
has been on an upward trend since 2016. Yet 
it remains our biggest opportunity to improve, 
and we are not yet where we want to be. 
An area of continued opportunity is enabling 
our colleagues through enhanced technology 
and collaboration tools.

A positive conduct and value-based culture
We will maintain our focus to embed 
meaningful tracking of our culture with the 
revised culture dashboards. We will continue 
to target efforts in our action plans to address 
the key opportunities for improvement, such 
as an obstacle-free working environment that 
allows colleagues to do their jobs well.

 
Citizenship

Key outcomes we will look to 
achieve include:
■■ making decisions and doing business in 

a way that provides our clients, customers, 
shareholders, colleagues and the 
communities we serve with access to 
a sustainable and prosperous future.

■■ proactively managing the environmental 
and societal impacts of our business.

How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, 
but are not limited to:
■■ delivery against the Shared Growth 

Ambition
■■ colleague engagement in citizenship 

activities
■■ external benchmarks and surveys.

How we are doing
Areas of encouragement
Delivery against the Shared Growth Ambition 
We met or exceeded five out of six internal 
objectives on the annual Shared Growth 
Ambition metrics. Performance was ahead of 
target against our annual internal milestones 
for the three focus areas of ‘Access to 
financing', ‘Access to digital and financial 
empowerment' and ‘Access to employment'. 
We also met or exceeded our 2018 annual 
targets for The Barclays Way training and 
carbon emissions reduction. Supplier payment 
on time was below target due to a change in 
systems, which impacted performance 
during the year.

Access to financing
We have continued to build our capability to 
deliver financing solutions across a range of 
social and environmental sectors including 
renewable energy, education, healthcare and 
development finance institutions. Our financing 
volume is tracked and screened using Barclays 
Impact Eligibility Framework, developed in 
collaboration with Sustainalytics a global 
provider of ESG and corporate governance, 
research, ratings and analytics. In 2018 Barclays 
facilitated £27.3bn in financing for specific 
social and environmental sectors across our 
business (2017: £31.7bn). The reduction from 
prior year reflects market conditions, including 
the impact of changes in U.S. tax law which 
caused certain qualifying clients to accelerate 
new debt issuance from 2018 into 2017. 
Underlying environmental financing increased 
11% to £5.3bn, driven by a range of capital 
markets transactions and a growing volume 
from our dedicated green product portfolio. 

We expanded our green product portfolio, 
including the launch of the first Green 
Mortgage for retail customers by a mainstream 
UK institution, added Green Trade Finance to 
our Corporate Banking green product set, and 
structured several innovative transactions such 
as the first Sustainability-linked Revolving 
Credit Facility for a US borrower.

We also deepened client engagement on 
these issues and hosted Barclays' inaugural 
Green Frontiers conference with a keynote 
presentation from former US Vice President Al 
Gore. We continue to engage with industry 
groups and policymakers on enhancing 
sustainable finance flows and providing a 
supportive policy framework.

How we are doing
Access to financing

£27.3bn
2017 £31.7bn

People helped to improve skill sets 
through employability partnerships 

2.4m
2017 2.1m

Global carbon emissions reduction

38%
2017 26.1%

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 23

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Access to financial and digital empowerment
We continue to focus on empowering 
customers and providing dedicated products, 
tools and training to help enhance access to 
financial services, manage digital security and 
improve financial health. We helped support 
around 260,000 people in 2018 (2017: 205,000) 
through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial for 
those with a limited credit history; our Digital 
Eagles network, comprised of specially trained 
Barclays employees working to provide free 
technology support to both customers and 
non-customers alike. See the Barclays UK 
performance overview on pages 30 to 33 for 
further information on the support we provide 
to financially vulnerable customers, disabled 
people and older customer groups, and tools to 
enhance financial health and tackle fraud.

Access to employment
Barclays is committed to helping people gain 
access to the skills they need to secure 
meaningful employment, connecting job 
seekers and employers, and supporting 
entrepreneurs to scale their businesses to 
create new jobs. We helped improve the skills 
of over 2.4 million people in 2018 (2017: 
2.1 million), driven by a range of employability 
partnerships around the world, our global 
Connect with Work programme and our 
LifeSkills programme in the UK.

We held programmes for the third year of the 
‘Unreasonable Impact' programme, created in 
partnership with the Unreasonable Group, 
focused on scaling innovative ventures that 
solve environmental and societal problems and 
grow to create new jobs. More than 90 ventures 
have participated to date in programmes across 

the UK and Europe, US and Asia. 

Our programmes received a number of 
awards. Barclays was named on the Fortune 
2018 Change the World List for the first time 
for positive social impact connected to core 
business strategy. Additional awards include 
the Business in the Community (BITC) 
Outstanding Employment Award for our 
Connect with Work programme, and the 
Corporate Engagement Award for Best 
Environmental or Sustainable Programme and 
Better Society Innovation Award, both for 
Unreasonable Impact.

Proactively managing the environmental  
and societal impacts of our business
We released statements in April 2018 on our 
approach to the coal sector and Ramsar 
Wetlands and World Heritage Sites. This was 
followed by a more comprehensive statement 
on our approach to energy and climate 
change in January 2019 (which strengthened 
and replaced our Coal Statement), and which 
includes a wider range of sensitive energy 
sectors. See the box on page 25 for more 
information. 

We published an updated Statement on 
Modern Slavery which includes additional 
information on the work our financial crime 
teams are doing in partnership with law 
enforcement agencies to identify suspicious 
activity and support our customers. The 
statement is available on our website  
home.barclays/citizenship/our-approach/
human-rights.html 

We continued to manage our operational 
environmental impacts, reducing global 

carbon emissions by 38% (2017: 26.1%) and 
exceeding our target of 30% reduction by 
2018 against the 2015 baseline. 

We achieved 82.1% (2017: 89%) on-time 
payment by value to our suppliers, falling 
short of our public commitment of 85% for 
the first time. This metric was affected by a 
change in systems which impacted 
performance during the year.

Colleague engagement in citizenship activities
Our colleagues are central to the success of 
our citizenship strategy and in driving our 
societal impact. Beyond the financial services 
we provide, our colleagues support the local 
communities in which we operate through 
volunteering, matched fundraising and payroll 
giving. We provide the opportunity to engage 
via our Barclays programmes such as LifeSkills 
and Digital Eagles among others, but similarly 
support other charitable activities in which 
our colleagues participate. We have active 
internal Environmental, Green Banking and 
Social Innovation networks. We celebrate 
our colleague engagement and participation 
through our 21st annual Citizenship Awards, 
which saw almost 1,500 employees 
nominated. 87% of colleagues who responded 
to the annual Your View employee survey 
are proud of Barclays' contribution to the 
community and society, above the global 
Financial Services Companies norm.

Areas of continued focus
Banks play a key role in connecting the 
providers and users of capital. Barclays 
recognises this role in serving society, and 
our success as a business has always been 
inextricably linked to the progress of the 
people and businesses that we serve. 

As society's expectations of businesses 
continue to evolve, we aim to stay ahead 
of those expectations. It is by focusing on 
our core products and services, and our 
relationships, that we can make the 
greatest positive impact.

 So as we move forward into 2019, our 
citizenship and sustainability work will evolve 
to align with our new Purpose, and will go 
further towards improving the positive social 
environmental impact of the business we do 
every day.

<Page End><Page Start>
24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Measuring performance
Key performance indicators

Capital and products 
We will continue to develop opportunities 
to achieve positive outcomes through the 
products and services we provide across 
the diverse consumer and wholesale client 
segments we serve:
■■ We will facilitate £150bn of social and 

environmental financing by 2025, including 
funding for sectors such as renewable 
energy, clean technology, education, 
affordable housing and national and 
supranational development institutions. 

■■ We remain committed to the green bond 
market as an investor and after meeting 
our £2bn target, we now aim to double our 
green bond investment to £4bn over time. 

Skills and employability 
■■ We will scale our partnerships with leading 

community organisations to address critical 
skills development and employability 
opportunities: we aim to upskill ten million 
people to support all generations across the 
UK through LifeSkills by 2022 

■■ we will also use our networks to help 
provide pathways to employment using 
a demand-driven approach. We will help 
place 250,000 people into work through 
our Connect with Work partnerships across 
the UK, US and Asia by 2022.

Economic growth 
Barclays has been part of the fabric of the UK 
for over 328 years. In addition to our role in 
the UK as a leading employer and provider of 
financial services across all segments of the 
economy, we will also pursue targeted local 
economic growth initiatives working in 
partnership with stakeholders: 

■■ we will support business growth across the 
UK through dedicated regional and industry 
focused growth funds 

■■ we will work with partners to identify 
the opportunities to Build Thriving Local 
Economies and run pilot schemes in four 
different local economies around the UK 
by 2022.

Sustainable innovation
We recognise the role of innovation in solving 
some of society's major challenges and the 
part Barclays can play in supporting new ideas 
to flourish and entrepreneurs and ventures to 
grow and thrive:
■■ we will support innovative business models 

and help to mentor over 250 high impact 
businesses solving social and environmental 

challenges through our Unreasonable 
Impact accelerator by 2022

■■ we will continue to support Barclays' 
Social Innovation Facility (SIF) to enable 
colleagues to develop new products and 
services that allow Barclays to generate 
both commercial and social value.

Environmental stewardship
Banks have an important role to play in 
ensuring the world's energy needs are met 
while helping to limit the threat that climate 
change poses to people and to the natural 
environment. We are focused on three areas 
of activity at Barclays:
■■ financing the growth of renewable energy 

sources and proactively supporting the 
development of businesses aiming to solve 
the world's environmental challenges

■■ taking a responsible and sustainable 
approach to the necessary financing of 
sources of energy that are more carbon 
intensive or those with higher 
environmental impact; and

■■ reducing the carbon footprint of our own 
operations and supply chain throughout the 
world. We will reduce operational scope 1 and 
2 emissions by 80% by 2025 and commit 
to RE100 – the world's most influential 
companies committed to 100% renewable 
power – to procure 100% of global operational 
energy needs from renewable sources by 
2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025. 

Contributing to global initiatives 
We will continue to engage with industry 
groups and policymakers on enhancing 
sustainable finance flows and providing a 
supportive policy framework. This includes 
supporting the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures, the IIF Sustainable 
Finance Group and a range of Green Finance 
initiatives with the UK Government and the 
Corporation of London. 

Barclays is one of the 28 founding banks of 
the Principles for Responsible Banking under 
the United Nations Environment Programme 
– Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). We support the 
finalisation of the Principles and will work to 
implement them over time. We support the 
creation of national green finance strategies, 
which specifically aim to support the 
mobilisation of finance towards the low-
carbon economy.

External ESG ratings and surveys
Barclays is evaluated on ESG factors by a wide 
range of external agencies. Currently there is 
significant variance between methodologies, 
with relatively opaque scoring models and 
limited consistency in the underlying data 
used at present. We believe it is important 
that these agencies, working with companies, 
investors and other market participants, 
continue to enhance consistency and 
transparency to support increasingly robust 
ESG data and ratings in the future. 

Across a set of ESG Ratings, our performance 
was broadly stable year-on-year with 
methodology changes the primary drivers of 
scoring. The FTSE4Good ESG Ratingc was flat 
at 4.3/5 (2017: 4.3/5 with an 81st percentile 
ranking against the global banks sector. 
Barclays was rated BBB by MSCI ESG Ratings 
(2017: BBB) and scored 60 points in 
Sustainalytics ESG Ratingse (2017: 61 points). 
We saw a decline in our RobecoSAMf scores 
due to changes in methodology, down by 4 
points to 75 points (2017: 79 points), against 
a sector average of 54 points. Institutional 
Shareholder Servicesg (ISS) released new 
environmental and social quality scores to 
assess corporate disclosures. On a 1-10 scale 
where 1 is highest, Barclays was rated as 
‘1' for social reporting and ‘2' for 
environmental reporting. Barclays was rated 
as A- in the 2018 CDP climate disclosure 
survey, up from B in 2017. 

Enhancing disclosures 
We recognise that markets and stakeholders 
need clear, relevant and consistent 
information and will continue to focus 
on enhancing disclosures, particularly on 
climate change, and across wider ESG factors, 
including the recommendations from the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD). We have enhanced our TCFD aligned 
disclosures in 2018 and set out a high-level 
implementation plan. See pages 26 to 27 for 
further information. 

Barclays publishes an annual Environmental 
Social Governance (ESG) Report as part of the 
Annual Report suite of documents. We have 
provided additional detail on material ESG 
themes in the 2018 Report available at  
home.barclays/annualreport

Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018 is available at 
home.barclays/annualreport

Notes
a Eligible environmental and social transactions and relevant products are tracked through a use of proceeds framework. Further detail is available in the ESG Report and online 

at home.barclays/citizenship. 
b Unique participants measures colleague involvement in eligible volunteering, matched fundraising, regular giving initiatives. Data sourced from internal reporting systems 

including several manual sources and includes employee self-reported activity. 
c Source: FTSE Russell. 
d Source: MSCI ESG Inc.
e Source: Sustainalytics Inc.
f Source: RobecoSAM.
g Source: Institutional Shareholder Services.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 25

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Our approach to sensitive energy sectors
Barclays is committed to a considered 
approach to energy and mining clients in 
sectors with higher carbon-related 
exposures or emissions from extraction or 
consumption, or those which may have an 
impact in certain sensitive environments or 
on communities. We conduct Enhanced Due 
Diligence (EDD) on a case-by-case basis on 
clients in these sensitive energy sectors, and 
will consider the following factors as a 
minimum:

■■ The client's adherence to the Equator 
Principles (if a project finance or credit 
transaction is deemed to be in scope) and 
relevant International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) performance standards;

■■ The client's adherence to local and 
national environmental regulation and 
standards and industry best practice;

■■ The client's management and 
implementation of procedures which 
minimise direct environmental impacts in 
the context of their operations;

■■ The client's responsible public and 
stakeholder engagement with impacted 
local communities and indigenous people;

■■ The client's approach to health and safety 
of the workforce and local communities; 
and,

■■ The client's transparent corporate 
governance and oversight of climate 
change issues and associated corporate 
risks, including disclosure against 
principles such as the Financial Stability 
Board (FSB) Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

In order to assist and enhance the EDD 
process, we operate a training programme 
for credit teams.

External technical input may be obtained 
to assist the business in reviewing and 
assessing whether certain client activities 
meet our internal EDD criteria, or where 
there is uncertainty as to whether a certain 
activity is within scope of our EDD criteria.

Barclays will continue to align its 
approach to sensitive energy sectors 
with developments in government and 
public policy.

Because of the nature of the business 
activities and the associated social and 
environmental impacts and risks, Barclays 
will apply further sector specific EDD and, 
in some cases restrictions, to the following 
sensitive energy sources: 

■■ Coal 
■■ Arctic Oil and Gas 
■■ Oil Sands 

Barclays external statements can be found 
in the Statements section of home.
barclays/citizenship with further detail in 
the Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018

<Page End><Page Start>
26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Measuring performance
Key performance indicators

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Barclays is a member of the Financial Stability 
Board's Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and signed the 
Statement of Support for the TCFD 
Recommendations, which were published 
in June 2017. This disclosure outlines the 
progress Barclays has made to date in 
adopting these voluntary recommendations, 
and presents our plan on how we will achieve 
alignment to the recommendations by 
February 2021. 

The TCFD recommendations aim to improve 
the disclosure of information to allow 
investors, regulators and other stakeholders 
to better assess and manage the risks and 
opportunities resulting from climate change. 
We rely on appropriate disclosures from 
clients to inform our own climate-related 
sector risk management. Clear understanding 
and analysis of potential financial risks and 
opportunities in short, medium and longer-
term horizons is still at an early stage. We 
anticipate that disclosures will continue to 
develop over time, supported by improved 
analytical tools, data and market practice. 
This will support Barclays as a user of 
climate disclosures across industry sectors 
and subsequently to inform our own 
disclosures as a preparer.

We provide summary disclosures in the 
Strategic Report with additional detail, 
including results of pilot scenario analysis 
and wider activity in 2018, in the ESG Report.

Governance
Barclays Group Executive Committee is 
responsible for managing the overall delivery 
of environmental and social matters, which 
includes climate-related risks and 
opportunities. On behalf of the Board, the 
Board Reputation Committee (RepCo) reviews 
and approves Barclays' overall approach to 
environmental and social issues, including 
the approach taken on climate change. 

The TCFD Implementation Forum, a senior 
forum set up in 2017 to provide oversight 
and drive implementation of the TCFD 
recommendations met three times in 2018. 
The Forum has representation from across 
the bank, including: Group CEO Office; Green 
Banking; Strategy; Compliance; Corporate 
Relations, including Sustainability and 
Reputation Risk; Credit Risk; Investor 
Relations and business teams from Barclays 
International and Barclays UK. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 27

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Strategy
Barclays has been integrating the 
management of climate-related risks and 
opportunities for a number of years, advising 
on, and developing green products. The 
Barclays Energy and Climate Change 
Statement focuses on financing the growth 
of renewable energy sources, taking a 
responsible and sustainable approach to the 
necessary financing required, and reducing 
the carbon footprint of our own operations 
and supply chain. 

Increasing funding needs for the energy 
transition and climate resilient infrastructure 
will continue to provide opportunities to 
mobilise capital, advise clients and develop 
dedicated products. We continued to build 
our platform for green and sustainable 
finance. See page 25 for more information.

Taking an exploratory approach in 2018, 
Barclays assessed credit risk (and opportunity) 
alongside 15 other banks as part of the United 
Nations Environment Programme Finance 
Initiative (UNEP FI) pilot project on both 
transition and physical risks. This was our 
first iteration of how scenario-based climate-
related transition and physical risks could 
potentially be integrated into the credit risk 
process. Testing of transition risk was 
undertaken in Electric Utilities and Oil and Gas 
(sub-set Exploration and Production) up to 
2030 and 2040; and physical risk in the UK 
Mortgage Portfolio up to 2020 and 2040. The 
pilot testing of these scenarios proved a useful 
exercise, and also indicated the current 
challenges with data and applying climate 
scenario methods over long-term time 
horizons.

Risk management 
Through the TCFD implementation 
programme, Barclays is taking steps to 
identify the relative significance of climate-
related risks as they relate to the Principal 
Risks within the Barclays Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF).

Environmental risk is recognised as a credit 
risk issue and Barclays has a dedicated 
Environmental Risk Management team, within 
the central Credit Risk Management function. 
An addition in 2018, resulting from both TCFD 
implementation and the UNEP FI pilot 
learnings, was to include the impacts of 
climate change in both the Environmental 
Risk Standard and the Client Assessment 
Standard. See page 134 for information on 
environmental risk management within credit 
risk and the Pillar 3 disclosures available at 
home.barclays/annualreport

Metrics and targets 
As disclosures develop, we would expect 
further dialogue over time between banks, 
corporates, investors and other market 
participants on appropriate, decision-useful 
and robust metrics to assess material financial 
risks and opportunities. Areas of focus 
include, among others, clarity over detailed 
definitions of carbon-related assets building 
on the TCFD high-level guidance; 
standardised methods for the calculation 
and presentation of credit exposure to 
carbon-related assets; definitions for 
climate-related and green financing 
across product categories; and suitable 
risk management metrics. 
■■ Financing: Barclays facilitated £5.3bn 

in environmental financing in 2018 (2017: 
£4.82bn) which includes green bonds and 
loans for renewable energy and low-carbon 
technology. 

■■ Treasury Green Bond Investment: Barclays 
remains committed to the green bond 
market as an investor and has continued to 
expand our green bond portfolio to £2.27bn 
in 2018 (2017: £1.56bn), meeting our target 
of £2bn. We now aim to double our 
investment to £4bn over time.

■■ Operations: In 2018 we set a science-based 
reduction target for scope one and two 
greenhouse gas emissions of 80% by 
2025; this is in line with the level of 
decarbonisation required to keep global 
temperature increases well below 
two degrees.

<Page End><Page Start>
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Structure and governance overseeing risk
Risk management

Barclays is exposed to internal and external risks as part 
of our ongoing activities. These risks are managed as 
part of our business model.

Enterprise Risk Management Framework
At Barclays, risks are identified and overseen 
through the Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF), which supports the business 
in its aim to embed effective risk management 
and a strong risk management culture.

The ERMF specifies the Principal Risks of 
Barclays and the approach to managing them.

The management of risk is 
embedded into each level of the 
business, with all colleagues 
being responsible for identifying 
and controlling risk.

Risk Appetite
Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are 
willing to take across the different risk types, 
taking into consideration varying levels of 
financial and operational stress. Risk Appetite is 
key for our decision making process, including 
ongoing business planning, new product 
approvals and business change initiatives.  
In recent years we have taken significant 
steps to de-risk our business, setting us 
up for sustainable growth in the future.

The management of risk is embedded into 
each level of the business, with all colleagues 
being responsible for identifying and 
controlling risks.

Three Lines of Defence
The First Line of Defence is comprised of the 
revenue generating and client facing areas, 
along with all associated support functions, 
including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources 
and Operations and Technology. The First Line 
identifies the risks, and sets the policies, 
standards and controls, within the criteria set 
by the Second Line of Defence.

The Second Line of Defence is made up of Risk 
and Compliance and oversees the First Line by 
setting the limits, rules and constraints on their 
operation, consistent with the Risk Appetite.

The Third Line of Defence is comprised of 
Internal Audit, providing independent assurance 
to the Board and Executive Committee.

Although the Legal function does not sit in any 
of the three lines, it works to support them all 
and plays a key role in overseeing Legal Risk 
throughout the bank. The Legal function is 
also subject to oversight from the Risk and 
Compliance functions with respect to the 
management of operational and conduct risks.

Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, 
using Business and Group level Risk 
Committees as well as Board level forums, 
the Board receives regular information in 
respect of the risk profile of the Group, and 
has ultimate responsibility for Risk Appetite 
and capital plans.

We believe that our structure and governance 
will assist us in managing risk in the changing 
economic, political and market environments.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 29

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Principal risk management

Risks are classified into Principal risks, as below How risks are managed

Financial principal risks
Credit risk The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, 

customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully 
honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole 
and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and 
other receivables.

Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and 
monitor various forms of credit exposure, individually 
and in aggregate.

Market risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes 
in the value of the firm's assets and liabilities from 
fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited 
to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, 
commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities 
and asset correlations.

A range of complementary approaches to identify and 
evaluate market risk are used to capture exposure to 
market risk. These are measured, controlled and 
monitored by market risk specialists.

Treasury and 
Capital risk

Liquidity risk:
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or 
contingent obligations or that it does not have the 
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding 
and liquidity to support its assets.

Capital risk:
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or 
composition of capital to support its normal business 
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements 
under normal operating environments or stressed 
conditions (both actual and as defined for internal 
planning or regulatory testing purposes). This includes 
the risk from the firm's pension plans.

Interest rate risk in the Banking Book:
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income 
volatility because of a mismatch between the interest 
rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

Treasury and capital risk is identified and managed 
by specialists in Capital Planning, Liquidity, Asset and 
Liability Management and Market Risk. A range of 
approaches are used appropriate to the risk, such as: 
limits; plan monitoring; and stress testing.

Non-financial principal risks
Operational risk The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed 

processes or systems, human factors or due to external 
events (e.g. fraud or cybercrime) where the root cause is 
not due to credit or market risks.

The Group assesses its operational risk and control 
environment across its businesses and functions with a 
view to maintaining an acceptable level of residual risk.

Model risk The risk of the potential adverse consequences from 
financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or 
misused model outputs and reports.

Models are evaluated for approval prior to 
implementation, and on an ongoing basis.

Reputation risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event 
will reduce trust in the firm's integrity and competence by 
clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees 
or the public.

Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a controlled 
culture within the Group, with the objective of acting with 
integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be 
built with customers and clients, colleagues and broader 
society.

Conduct risk The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market 
integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate 
supply of financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

The Compliance function sets the minimum standards 
required, and provide oversight to monitor that these risks 
are effectively managed and escalated where appropriate.

Legal risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages 
or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal 
obligations including regulatory or contractual 
requirements.

The Legal function supports colleagues in identifying 
and limiting legal risks.

<Page End><Page Start>
30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Leaders in innovation
Barclays UK

With 24 million customers and clients and 
25,000 colleagues, Barclays UK's strategy 
is about building long-term, meaningful 
relationships with our customers. This is 
achieved through colleagues, empowered by 
technology, passionate about the customer, 
delivering perfect and personalised 
experiences to help customers move 
forward with confidence every day.

Customers and clients
■■ Individuals
■■ Small and medium-sized enterprises

Products and services
■■ Personal banking services 
■■ Credit cards and transactional lending 
■■ Mortgages and secured lending
■■ Investment products and services 
■■ Business banking solutions 

Value creation
■■ To our customers and clients – building 

meaningful relationships, providing 
relevant and personalised financial 
solutions 

■■ To society – helping communities 
move forward

■■ To shareholders – providing 
sustainable, diversified returns and 
prudent balance growth 

Contribution to Barclays

£7.4bn
Income

£2.4bn*
Profit before tax

 16.7%*
RoTE

56%*
Cost: income ratio

£75.2bn
Risk weighted assets

* Excluding litigation and conduct.

Ashok Vaswani
CEO, Barclays UK

C
u

st
om

er
s 

an
d 

cli
ent

s Products and services

Value creation

Barclays UK
operating model

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 31

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Overview
Barclays UK is a personal and business banking 
franchise, comprised largely of our Personal 
Banking, Barclaycard Consumer UK and 
Business Banking businesses. 

Our Personal Banking business includes 
Community and Premier banking, as well as 
Savings, Investments & Wealth Management, 
which offer financial solutions to help 
customers move forward with confidence. 
Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit 
card provider, offering flexible borrowing and 
payment solutions, while delivering a leading 
customer experience. Business Banking serves 
a spectrum of clients, from high growth 
start-ups to small and medium-sized 
enterprises who need specialist advice, 
products and services. 

This year, we officially established Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, which forms part of Barclays 
PLC Group, being the first bank in the UK to 
become legally ring-fenced. This was a huge 
undertaking and brings with it a new phase 
in Barclays' history.

Strategy
Our strategy is centred on building long-term, 
meaningful relationships with our customers. 
This is achieved through colleagues, 
empowered by technology, passionate 
about the customer, delivering perfect and 
personalised experiences to help customers 
move forward with confidence every day.

The Barclays Purpose is Creating opportunities 
to rise. In Barclays UK we express this as 
#letsgoforward – helping people move 
forward and do the things they want to do, 
with confidence, every day.

Market and operating environment
The current political and economic environment 
poses a number of challenges through the 
impact on our customers of continuing 
uncertainty, modest economic growth and 
volatile exchange rates, while ongoing low 
interest rates constrain overall profitability. 
Against this backdrop, competition, customer 
behaviour and regulatory expectations continue 
to evolve rapidly, requiring a high degree of 
business change. Barclays UK, however, 
continues to deliver solid financial 
performance, with a Return on Tangible Equity 
of 16.7% (excluding litigation and conduct), 
underpinned by strong capital and liquidity 
positions with a conservative LDR of 96%. 
This has been achieved through the delivery 
of customer-centric solutions and franchise-
led deposit growth, matched by low risk, 
high-quality secured asset growth while 
maintaining a stable net interest margin.

Risks to the operating model
The uncertainty around Brexit has been a 
challenge throughout 2018 and remains so, 
impacting both customer confidence and the 
market environment. We closely monitor the 

environment in which we operate and 
key indicators within our business, while 
proactively planning for numerous potential 
outcomes, in order to minimise the risks 
associated with the UK's withdrawal from the 
European Union. We remain conservative in 
our outlook, supported by our strong risk 
management framework and oversight.

The threats of organised crime and cyberattacks 
remain key risks to our operating model and 
we continue to invest to ensure the 
operational resilience and reliability of our 
technological infrastructure, while simplifying 
our technological estate in order to remain 
agile and drive technological advancement 
for the benefit of our customers.

We remain focused on reducing the volume 
of operational incidents through continued 
investment in our technology and controls. 
The volume of operational incidents caused by 
technology are becoming less frequent across 
Barclays year-on-year, with a 13% reduction in 
the last 12 months.  Where incidents do occur, 
we are resolutely focused on minimising any 
impact on customers.

There have been a number of significant 
regulatory developments around retail banking 
business models and pricing in 2018 that have 
the potential to impact our business models 
going forward, while potential new market 
entrants, such as Fintechs and established 
large technology companies, threaten to take 
market share.

As the deadline for PPI enquiries approaches, 
we continue to monitor responses and 
resource appropriately for an increase in the 
lead up to the cliams deadline date, in order to 
ensure the right outcomes for our customers. 

Key highlights of the year 
Throughout 2018, we have continued to 
demonstrate our position as leaders in 
innovation, providing customers with 
solutions to better serve their financial needs. 
Through automation and digitisation, over 
half of the products we delivered in 2018 
were taken out digitally and 90% of our 
service transactions are now completed 
in a self-service fashion by our customers.

We have continued to develop the capabilities 
of our mobile banking app, Barclays Mobile 
Banking (BMB) to allow our customers to 
manage their finances more easily and 
effectively, with BMB becoming the most used 
banking app in the UK (eBenchmarkers). We 
now have around 10.8 million digitally active, 
around five million of whom are digital only.

We are proud to be the first major UK high 
street bank to allow customers to aggregate 
their other current accounts into our mobile 
banking app through Open Banking API 
technology, meaning that customers do not 
have to share their online banking log-in 
credentials with us in order to do this. We 

will continue to harness the opportunities that 
Open Banking provides in order to deliver new 
and exciting applications for our customers in 
the future. 

By focusing our efforts on improving the 
end-to-end journeys for our customers, 
we have again reduced the number of 
complaints we receive. Despite this, the level 
of complaints we receive remains too high 
and reducing them further will continue to 
be a key priority for us in 2019.

This year has seen further progress in ensuring 
we continue to properly support older, disabled 
or potentially vulnerable customers. A number 
of new services were launched including: the 
ability for deaf customers to contact us by 
telephone with the assistance of a third-party 
interpreter; an online support page for people 
experiencing mental health concerns; and a 
wide-range of considerations for older 
customers including fraud and scams 
awareness and accessible banking services.

We are investing in personalised ways to 
support customers who are showing that they 
may be experiencing early stages of financial 
stress. Enabled by a new sophisticated data 
engine, we have developed a suite of tailored 
contacts to direct customers towards tools 
and information that could help them improve 
their financial health.

We have already helped over 6.7 million young 
people develop the core, transferable skills 
they need for the world of work through our 
LifeSkills programme and we have committed 
to upskill another 10 million people over the 
next five years to support all generations, 
across the whole of the UK. 

Ashok Vaswani
CEO, Barclays UK

Building Thriving  
Local Economies
In September, we launched our first 
Building Thriving Local Economies pilot in 
Bury, Greater Manchester. Through this 
we aim to bring together people, teachers, 
business groups and political leaders 
across our communities to identify 
growth opportunities and understand the 
barriers that prevent local communities 
in the UK from moving forward. We 
understand that every community has 
different characteristics and 
circumstances, so following our pilot in 
Bury, we will create a further three pilots 
in different types of communities across 
the UK, including a rural community, a 
coastal community and a smaller town.

<Page End><Page Start>
32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Leaders in innovation
Barclays UK

Personal Banking 
Our Community and Premier Banking 
team develop transparent and innovative 
solutions for our customers. We help 
customers move forward by putting them 
at the heart of everything we do, 
connecting the different aspects of their 
lives to their financial lives, at the time 
that suits them. This ranges from 
opening their first bank account to 
completing a mortgage on their 
dream home.

Savings, Investments & Wealth 
Management serves a spectrum of 
clients – from those who manage their 
own investments, requiring an execution 
service, to those who require a dedicated 
and holistic service through our Wealth 
Management division. 

Community and Premier Banking
Throughout the year, we have helped our 
Community and Premier customers go 
forward through a range of both new 
products and propositions as well as 
enhancements to existing ones.

We have made a range of enhancements to 
BMB in order to help our customers manage 
their finances more effectively. As well as being 
able to view current accounts from other 
banks, we continue to give customers more 
control of their financial lives. Misplaced 
debit cards can now be temporarily frozen 
through BMB, preventing any cash machine 
withdrawals and online or in-store debit 
card purchases. We have also implemented 
a calendar view feature showing regular 
payments scheduled for the month ahead to 
assist in better financial planning, as well as an 
improved view of transaction details, including 
a map view, so our customers can identify 
with whom they have spent their money 
more quickly and easily.

We continued to reward customers who 
chose to bank with us, launching two 
switching campaigns in 2018 based on 
our Blue Rewards proposition. Our first 
campaign offered double rewards for a year 
for switching, followed by a subsequent 
campaign offering double Rewards for 
Community and triple Rewards for Premier 
customers for switching to a Barclays Current 
Account through the Current Account Switch 
Service. 1.4 million customers now benefit 
from Blue Rewards, including Cashback, 
representing a 51% year-on-year increase.

In 2018, we helped over 110,000 customers 
take out a mortgage or further borrowing on 
their property, 22,000 of whom were first-time 
buyers. We continue to help our customers on 
their home-buying journey with 1.5% growth 
in gross lending year-on-year. 

Demonstrating our commitment to Barclays 
Group's green finance agenda, we were the 
first major UK bank to offer a Green Mortgage 
product. The Barclays Green Home Mortgage 
rewards customers with lower rates on certain 
deals when purchasing new energy efficient 
homes and builds upon Barclays green 
product offering.

Savings, Investments and 
Wealth Management
In 2018, we brought our Savings proposition 
together with our Wealth and Investments 
business, so that we can seek to offer our 
customers and clients a flawless experience, 
whatever stage they are at in their savings 
and investments journey.

We launched our Flexible Monthly Income 
Bond, which enables customers to deposit 
a lump sum for a three-year term and then 
drawdown the capital on a monthly basis to 
supplement their income. This is a unique and 
innovative product designed for customers 
in the retirement segment, with the launch 
linked to National Pension Awareness Day.

Customers who want instant access to their 
savings can now open an Everyday Saver 
account entirely through BMB. We have seen 
a huge customer response to this with over 
60% of Everyday Saver accounts opened 
digitally in 2018.

In our Wealth Management business we 
continued our focus on growth throughout 
2018, with a number of new hires and 
continued strong levels of new client 
acquisition. However, challenging market 
conditions have resulted in overall assets 
under management falling year on year. 
Investment will continue to be made to 
improve the client experience and productivity 
of our Wealth Managers during 2019.

After a difficult start to the year, with issues 
relating to the migration of customers to our 
digital investing proposition, Smart Investor, 
we have worked to enhance the platform in 
2018 – for example customers can now sign 
up to Smart Investor via BMB. However, there 
remains work to do in 2019 to turn the 
platform into a leading digital investments 
offering. To this end, we have a confirmed 
2019 delivery roadmap, based on client 
feedback, that will see significant upgrades 
to the platform throughout the year.

Barclaycard Consumer UK
Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading 
credit card provider, providing flexible 
borrowing and payment solutions to 
around 10 million customers in the UK. 
We help people move forward, by helping 
them to borrow and pay in the way that 
suits them. We are a responsible lender, 
providing credit based on credit history, 
ability to afford credit and our risk 
appetite, while seeking to deliver a 
leading customer experience.

In 2018, we have looked at further ways 
to meet the needs of our customers. 
At Barclaycard Consumer UK, we inspire 
confidence by making sure everything we do 
is secure, reliable and useful to our customers 
and clients, like giving our customers 24/7 
fraud protection to keep their money safe 
and equipping customers with the knowledge 
to protect themselves from fraud. Our Fraud 
Fighter campaign highlights that fraud is 
not always so easy to spot and encourages 
customers to use our Fraud Fighter Tool. 

We continued working to better understand 
the needs of different customer circumstances 
and help put the customer in control. We 
launched a credit build tool that offers tips 
and advice to help customers build their credit 
score. We helped customers move forward 
this year with our first ever product upgrade 
from Initial to Platinum for qualifying price 
promise customers – we upgraded customers 
who kept their accounts in order for 
12 months to help them further build their 
credit score and go forward to do the things 
they want to do, with confidence, every day.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 33

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

We are also committed to ensuring more 
transparency with our customers, not just 
in the ways that we communicate with them, 
but by simplifying the ways that our products 
work. Over the last year, we have waived 
interest charges on purchases that are paid 
in full if a card also has a promotional balance. 
Under this new scheme, cardholders that 
make new purchases during the billing cycle 
and pay them off in full by their payment due 
date will no longer pay any interest on those 
transactions, thus removing the need for 
customers to use separate cards for their 
spending and balance transfers.

We continue to challenge ourselves to think 
differently and create a model that lowers 
complaints and provides better customer 
experience while delivering sustainable 
returns. Customers want relevant, 
personalised payment and borrowing options, 
coupled with perfect digital-driven 
experiences and they want those experiences 
to come to them, in the digital channels they 
choose, at the moment that's right for them. 
In a first for any of Barclays UK's retail banking 
products, customers can now acquire a 
Barclaycard credit card on an external 
Open Banking Mobile app.

Barclays was the first major UK 
bank to offer a Green Mortgage 
product. The Barclays Green 
Home Mortgage rewards 
customers with lower rates on 
certain deals when purchasing 
new energy efficient homes and 
builds upon Barclays green 
product offering.

Business Banking
Business Banking offers products, 
services and specialist advice to over one 
million clients in the UK, ranging from 
start-ups to mid-sized businesses, to 
help them achieve their goals.

Business Banking provides support to clients 
across the UK at all stages of their business 
cycle through a relationship-based and 
digitally-driven service. 

Our UK-wide network of experts has helped 
thousands of businesses get started and grow, 
with access to specialist industry insights 
across key segments such as Agriculture and 
Real Estate. We also support a legacy portfolio 
of Education, Social Housing and Local 
Authorities (ESHLA) clients. Although new 
lending to ESHLA clients is met through 
Barclays International, Barclays UK continues 
to support ESHLA clients, for example, by 
agreeing a number of mergers within social 
housing, which gives clients the capacity to 
continue building more new homes to 
address UK housing needs.

Innovation is an integral part of our strategy 
for growth and continues to be at the 
forefront of our services. In 2018, we 
announced a number of key partnerships 
with Fintech businesses, such as our 
industry-leading collaboration with PayPal, 
enhancing customers' digital payments, 
saving SMEs time and putting them in control, 
with access to marketing, inventory and other 
valuable data all in one place. We collaborated 
with MarketInvoice, Europe's largest online 
invoice financing platform, providing small 
businesses with access to invoice financing 
products and transforming the way SMEs 
manage cash flow and accelerate growth. 

We also launched £100,000 unsecured 
lending limits for SMEs, doubling our 
maximum limits for unsecured business 
loans for eligible clients, making small 
business lending faster, simpler and easier. 
This adds to our existing unsecured lending 
offering which allows qualifying SME clients to 
access pre-assessed affordable lending up to 
£25,000  via our mobile app and through 
online banking, often receiving the cash 
that same day.

Island dream becomes 
reality thanks to funding 
from Barclays
Laura Pitchford from North Wales has 
secured funding from Barclays to take 
ownership of a community coffee shop 
on the Isle of Mull that she has visited 
since childhood. The business loan 
enabled her to purchase the business 
which includes tearooms and self-
catering accommodation, a centre 
point in the local community. 

Laura and her family have been repeat 
visitors there for 15 years and while 
visiting last summer, Laura asked the 
owner if she ever planned on selling. Just 
six months later, the call came offering 
Laura the chance to make her island 
dream a reality.

Laura approached her local Barclays 
Relationship Manager to support her 
ambitions, “Running my own business 
is something I've wanted to do for some 
time” said Laura. “I'm really excited about 
the future and looking forward to 
adapting to the island way of life. Thanks 
to the support from Barclays, the dream 
I've had for years has become a reality.”

A Barclays spokesperson said: “At 
Barclays we're passionate about helping 
Scotland's business owners at every 
stage of their journey. We were able to 
offer Laura a local relationship manager, 
who understood her ambitions and 
helped her to take ownership of the 
business. With Barclays' backing, Laura's 
island plans have now become a reality.”

<Page End><Page Start>
34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Strengthening our diversified portfolio
Barclays International

In 2018, Barclays International made good 
progress on executing our strategy and 
improving returns. Our progress gives us 
confidence that by continuing to build our 
businesses through targeted deployment of 
financial resources and investments in talent 
and technology, we can accelerate our growth 
and achieve increased returns.

Customers and clients
■■ Consumers
■■ Corporates
■■ Financial institutions
■■ Governments
■■ High and ultra-high net  

worth individuals and family offices
■■ Money managers and institutional 

investors

Products and services
■■ Corporate banking
■■ Investment banking
■■ Non-UK consumer banking,  

cards and lending
■■ Payments
■■ Securities sales, trading and research
■■ Wealth management

Value creation
■■ To our customers and clients – we 

connect providers and users of capital
■■ To society – we facilitate sustainable 

economic growth 
■■ To shareholders – we deliver sustainable 

returns from our diversified portfolio  
of businesses

Contribution to Barclays

£14.0bn
Income

£3.9bn*
Profit before tax

8.7%*
RoTE

68%*
Cost: income ratio

£210.7bn
Risk weighted assets

* Excluding litigation and conduct.

Tim Throsby
CEO, Barclays International

C
u

st
om

er
s 

an
d 

cli
ent

s Products and services

Value creation

Barclays
International

operating model

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 35

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Overview 
Barclays International consists of the Corporate 
and Investment Bank (CIB) and Consumer, 
Cards and Payments (CCP). With relentless 
focus on delivering for customers and clients in 
our UK and US home markets and around the 
world, Barclays International's diversified 
business portfolio provides balance, resilience 
and exciting growth opportunities. The division 
has strong global market positions, and 
continues to invest in people and technology in 
order to deliver sustainably improved returns.

Strategy
Barclays International has a transatlantic 
footprint anchored in the world's deepest and 
most sophisticated capital markets, London 
and New York. 

Barclays International offers clients and 
customers a range of products and services 
spanning retail banking and wealth 
management, credit cards and payments, and 
corporate and investment banking. The 
diversified business model provides Barclays 
shareholders with a mix of revenue streams 
that benefit from the different stages of the 
world's economic cycles.

We are making strategic investments to seize 
the clear growth prospects each business 
presents. Similarly, we continue to build a great 
culture where our strong conduct and rigorous 
controls environment enable us to deliver the 
right outcomes for all our stakeholders. 

Market and operating environment
The markets in 2018 were characterised by US 
economic outperformance, including further 
labour market improvements and on-target 
inflation rates. Against this backdrop, short-
term US interest rates increased further, ahead 
of other core markets, and the US dollar 
strengthened. While market volatility remained 
generally low, isolated bouts of volatility resulted 
in a more uneven equity performance. In the 
UK, growth softened further amid heightened 
uncertainty around Brexit developments, 
reflected in a volatile and depreciating sterling. 

Barclays has been working on plans with respect 
to the UK's departure from the EU in 2019. Our 
plans are driven by an overriding commitment to 
preserve seamless ongoing EU market access for 
Barclays and our customers and clients. A key 
element of our plans was to seek regulatory 
authorisations from the Central Bank of Ireland 
and the European Central Bank to expand the 
operations of Barclays Bank Ireland PLC 
(BBIPLC). Barclays has had a banking licence in 
Ireland for almost 40 years. During 2018, 
Barclays received the necessary authorisations, 
scaled up our presence in Ireland, and began 
the transfer of our European branches from 
BBPLC to BBIPLC. We remain confident in our 
ability to serve our customers and clients once 
the UK's withdrawal is complete.

Our US Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) 
received positive feedback from the US Federal 

Reserve on the IHC's first-ever public stress 
test submissions, indicating the strength of 
the IHC's capital position. The IHC, which we 
established in 2016, is an umbrella holding 
company for our US subsidiaries, including the 
US broker-dealer that operates key investment 
banking businesses and the entity that 
operates Cards & Payments in the US.

Risks to the operating model
Geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty 
in some markets remain a risk, while the 
volume and reach of regulatory change 
continues to require significant attention. 

The potential impact of longer-term 
uncertainty is a sustained low rate environment, 
predominately impacting revenues and driving 
cautious market activity. This was evident in 
2018, and created a challenging operating 
environment for corporate and investment 
banking activities in particular. 

As we accelerated our growth efforts in 2018, 
we increased our focus on ensuring that new 
revenue opportunities do not compromise our 
prudent approach to risk, or our ability to 
generate sustainable returns. Coupled with 
our cost efficiency programmes, this balanced 
approach is designed to deliver a more 
attractive bottom line. 

We have a conservative risk profile, and continue 
to work to maintain the quality of our lending 
book. The quality of our US credit card portfolios 
has been consistent with the overall industry 
and key competitors. After an increase in 
delinquency rates in 2017, rates moderated for 
both the industry and Barclays in 2018. Loss and 
arrears rates are still below the long-term 
average and below pre-recession levels, driven in 
part by favourable US GDP growth and low 
unemployment rates. We continue to monitor 
overall growth in unsecured debt across the 
industry, particularly relative to wage growth, 
and during 2018 unsecured debt growth slowed 
to 4.9%, compared with 6.7% in 2017.

We continue to invest to ensure our 
infrastructure is resilient to cybercrime, 
conducting comprehensive penetration testing, 
supported by the deployment of a number of 
best-in-class malware detection tools. 

Key highlights of the year
Barclays International delivered profit before 
tax across all four quarters of 2018 – 
demonstrating the increasing ability of our 
diversified portfolio of businesses to deliver the 
sustainable growth our shareholders expect.

We continually evaluate our entire portfolio of 
businesses for capital, leverage, risk assets 
and funding across all jurisdictions and legal 
entities. This helps us to further enhance both 
our operational discipline and precision in our 
capital allocation to deliver stronger returns.

Identifying the right talent to execute on our 
ambitions remains fundamental to our growth 
strategy. Over the course of the year, we hired 

several experienced professionals to bring 
complementary skills to our leadership team, 
and made strategic appointments in areas where 
we see opportunities for growth, including a 
significant number of internal promotions.

To enable our people to deliver the best 
outcomes for our customers and clients, 
we focused our technology investment on 
commercially impactful enhancements, and 
this focus remains a hallmark of the division's 
strategy for the year ahead. Key initiatives 
ranged from new data science and algorithmic 
capabilities, to an enhanced digital experience 
for our customers and clients. 

We are already seeing results of investing in 
our businesses. For example, our Equities 
franchise delivered a standout performance 
this year, with revenue growth outpacing 
competitors. Similarly, we are seeing growth in 
our newly launched US consumer loans 
product, which complements our US cards 
business.

During the year, we continued to contribute to 
society, from launching a new housing 
development fund to creating pathways to 
employment, and from mentoring 
entrepreneurs to structuring sustainability-
linked loans. 

Building on our progress is the mission of 
every colleague in Barclays International. 
We are confident in our ability to build on the 
commercial focus we demonstrated in 2018, 
and to deliver the right outcomes for all our 
stakeholders. 

Tim Throsby
CEO, Barclays International

Investing in electronic 
trading capabilities to 
increase share in Markets
Upgrading our cross-asset electronic 
trading platform, BARX, provided 
significant fuel for our Markets business' 
standout performance this year. For 
example, the overhaul of our e-Rates 
platform is driving a tenfold increase in 
electronic trading of interest rate swaps 
by our buyside clients. Our new Equities 
platform, featuring industry-leading algo 
capabilities, is generating significantly 
higher volumes from our clients and very 
positive feedback. The clients who 
generate the highest returns do more 
business with firms who deliver a 
consistently strong market-making 
offering across asset classes, so we are 
committed to extending our BARX 
investment in order to meet and exceed 
those client expectations, and to drive 
profitable growth in our franchise.

<Page End><Page Start>
36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Corporate and 
Investment Bank
The Corporate and Investment Bank 
comprises principally the Banking, 
Corporate Banking and Markets businesses 
which aid money managers, institutions, 
governments and corporate clients in 
managing their funding, financing, and 
risk management needs.

Performance overview
Banking 
Banking provides clients with long-term 
strategic advice on mergers and acquisitions 
(M&A), corporate finance and financial risk 
management solutions, as well as equity 
and debt capital raising services.

In 2018, across the industry, fees were down 
approximately 4% globally, with some 
products and regions down double digits. 
Barclays' global investment banking fee share 
was 4.2%, consistent with our performance 
in 2017. 

In Europe and the Middle East, we ranked 
fifth for all Banking products, our highest 
ever full-year ranking. In the Americas, we 
ranked sixth, and remain the highest-ranked 
European investment bank. Our Asia Pacific 
franchise continues to perform well.

Our performance was bolstered by a standout 
year in M&A, where we attained our highest 
global fee share in four years and ranked in 
the top five in Americas M&A for the third 
consecutive year. In Debt Underwriting we 
ranked in the top four in global fee share 
for the third consecutive year, driven by 
a continued strong presence in both the 
leveraged finance and investment grade 
primary debt markets. Our Equity 
Underwriting business performed well 
in a very challenging market environment, 
winning our highest ever ranking in 
European rights offerings, and continued 
to demonstrate momentum in initial public 
offerings (IPOs), where we book-ran five of 
the year's 10 largest IPOs from the Americas, 
Europe and the Middle East.

During 2018, our new Social Impact Banking 
group structured the first sustainability-linked 
loans in the US. More than 100 of our Banking 
colleagues mentored entrepreneurs as part of 
the third annual Unreasonable Impact 
programme, the world's first international 
network of accelerators focused on scaling-up 
entrepreneurial businesses that will help 
employ thousands worldwide while solving 
some of society's most pressing challenges. 

Barclays was the recipient of multiple industry 
awards in 2018, including being named by 
Euromoney as the UK's Best Investment Bank 
for the third consecutive year (and sixth time 

in the last seven years), and as Western 
Europe's Best Bank for Financing. In addition, 
Global Capital ranked Barclays as the Best 
Corporate Broker in the UK for the third year 
running, and IFR magazine named Barclays 
its North America Asset-Backed Securitisation 
House of the Year. 

In the year ahead, we see opportunities to 
improve further the performance of Banking 
by investing in talent in key products and 
sectors, and continuing to build on our 
historical strength in debt underwriting.

Corporate Banking
Our Corporate Banking business provides 
GBP and EUR working capital and transaction 
banking services, including trade and 
payments, for multinational corporates and 
institutions, and UK large and medium size 
corporate clients.

Our new Corporate Banking leadership is 
focused on enhancing our offering. During 
the year, we developed a new multi-country 
digital banking platform, primarily supporting 
Corporate and Investment Bank clients, which 
was most recently rolled out in Ireland and 
Germany. In Q3 2018, Corporate Banking and 
the UK Government launched a £1bn housing 
development fund to boost the delivery of 
new housing in England, and also launched a 
£300m ENABLE Guarantee cashback scheme 
with the British Business Bank to boost asset 
finance lending to SMEs.

Corporate Banking has also driven stronger 
client relationships through innovative 
programmes like Connect with Work, which 
builds bridges between people who face 
barriers to getting into work and businesses 

that are recruiting but struggling 
to find suitable candidates. 

Through significant investments in our 
technology, we are increasing the resiliency 
and performance of our digital client 
experience. These investments will continue 
to be a focus for the year ahead, alongside 
enhancing our competitive position in 
the UK, and growing our transaction banking 
revenues globally, expanding our European 
cash management platform, and continuing 
to enhance the commercial effectiveness of 
our lending book.

Markets 
Our Markets business provides a broad range 
of clients with market insight, execution 
services, and tailored risk management and 
financing solutions across equities, credit, 
rates and foreign exchange (FX) products. 

We made good progress in 2018 on our 
strategy to rebuild our franchise and 
transform performance over the long term. 
Supported by our investments in financial 
resources, technology, and human capital, 
our business this year increased market sharea 
across each asset class and delivered five 
consecutive quarters of outperformance vs. 
our peers. In a year of challenging market 
conditions, our Credit and Macro (Rates and 
FX) businesses – which we report as FICC 
(Fixed Income, Credit and Commodities) – 
produced steady performances, driven by 
revenue diversification in Credit and market 
share gains in Macro. Revenue growth in 
our Equities franchise outperformed our 
competitors, driven by strong performances 
in derivatives and equity financing. We also 
made significant progress in building out our 

Strengthening our diversified portfolio
Barclays International

Enhancing the precision of 
our capital allocation
With the goal of ensuring that our resources 
are being deployed in a manner that will 
drive improved shareholder returns, we are 
embedding a rigorous approach to 
quantitative and analytic capabilities and 
balancing risk and return within our 
businesses across Barclays International. 
We are focused on driving efficiency in 
funding and optimising the allocation of 
our capital. In addition, we identify new 
businesses to grow top line revenue. 
Early success on this front includes the 
Asset Finance business, which executed 
two major mortgage acquisition and 
securitisation transactions this year, 
both valued over £4bn.

Note 
a  All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and 

Barclays' internal business structure.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 37

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

electronic platform capabilities across all 
asset classes, enabling best-in-class execution 
for clients. 

We continued to help clients navigate market 
events and volatility, and maintained or 
improved our position in a number of markets.  
For example, Barclays was one of three banks 
chosen to execute the first-ever bond issue 
and the first-ever asset-backed commercial 
paper transaction based on the new  
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). 
Additionally, we are a top three ranked broker 
by traded notional on the Tokyo Stock 
Exchange (TSE), with over 100 trillion yen 
traded for our clients in 2018, equating to 
more than 10% market share. 

The clients who generate the highest returns 
for market-making businesses consistently 
allocate the greatest and most profitable share 
of their activity to full service markets 
franchises. To better meet the needs of these 
clients – typically the world's largest money 
managers – and therefore to improve returns, 
in 2019 we plan to pursue targeted growth 
and diversification opportunities. Our dialogue 
with clients regarding these initiatives gives us 
confidence that these investments will drive 
the right commercial outcomes.

Research
Our Research team's mission is to affect 
clients' decision-making through independent, 
thought-leading, differentiated insights on 
equity and debt, as well as on the macro 
trends shaping the global economy.

To enhance our relevance to clients, 
particularly after the implementation of 
MiFID II, we continue to invest in our analysts 
and the digital capabilities supporting their 
work, as well as in best-in-class platforms to 
disseminate their insights. The Research Data 
Science Platform we are building will become 
an increasingly important differentiator for us, 
with state-of-the-art data infrastructure 
operated by leading data scientists and 
leveraging alternative data sets in innovative 
ways. Partnerships with research aggregators 
and new multimedia capabilities are helping 
clients interact with us in the channels of their 
choice, and report enhanced categorisation 
is bringing our best content to a broader 
audience. 

The insights generated by our analysts 
drive connectivity with clients across the 
Investment Bank, with particularly strong 
client engagement on cross-asset, cross-
regional perspectives, and our teams' industry 
rankings demonstrate their relevance in 
helping clients understand the markets in 
a challenging year.

Performance overview
Cards & Payments 
Our Cards & Payments business operates 
across five business units: US Consumer Bank, 
Barclaycard Payment Solutions, Barclays 
Partner Finance, Barclaycard Commercial 
Payments and Barclaycard Germany.

US Consumer Bank offers co-branded and 
branded credit cards in the US, along with 
consumer loans and online retail deposits. 
Across all credit card products, US Consumer 
Bank added over two million new accounts 
in 2018 while growing our consumer retail 
deposits to over US$14bn. We are among the 
top-ten credit card issuers in the market by 
total outstandings as at the end of 2018. Our 
strong position in the travel and entertainment 
industry continued with the launch of a new 
Frontier Airlines co-brand credit card. Our 
Uber Visa card and our JetBlue Plus Card 
appeared in U.S. News & World Report's list 
of Best Travel Rewards Credit Cards. We also 
maintained our number three position in the 
2018 J.D. Power US Credit Card Satisfaction 
Study. Driving continued strong growth in our 
US Consumer Bank – across online consumer 
banking and our partner cards franchise – 
is a strategic priority for us in 2019.

Barclaycard Payment Solutions provides 
merchant acquiring, payments integration and 
acceptance, and payment gateway products 
in the UK. In 2018, we processed over £250bn 
in payments, making us one of the largest 
payment acceptance providers in Europe. 
During the year, we successfully migrated 
over 100,000 clients from across our small 
business and corporate client base onto our 
new BankWORKS platform; clients now enjoy 
better and more resilient service, including 
new and improved statements and simplified 
and flexible pricing.

Barclays Partner Finance provides point of 
sale finance products to consumers in the 
UK through a network of retailers and car 
dealerships. In 2018, we grew our existing 

partnerships, built relationships with new 
clients, won a number of industry awards, 
and retained our position as the market 
leader in the UK retail market.

Barclaycard Commercial Payments provides 
commercial cards and virtual payment 
products in the UK. In 2018, we launched 
the UK's first co-branded trade credit card 
partnership with Travis Perkins Group, and 
strengthened our presence in the travel 
industry by signing new partnerships with 
Amadeus, Paxport and Voxel. 

Barclaycard Germany is now over a quarter of 
a century old and serves over 1.3 million credit 
card, deposit and loan customers. We are the 
leading issuer of revolving credit cards in the 
country by outstanding balances. We also 
have a growing instalment loans business as 
well as an online deposit product. In 2018 we 
launched a new Barclaycard Visa credit card, 
and expanded our unique Equal Payment Plan 
(EPP) offering by enabling credit card 
customers to repay their credit card balance 
in fixed instalments. Barclaycard Germany 
continues to drive exceptional customer 
satisfaction rankings (RNPS), with the 
business ranking in the top two for both 
cards and loans.

Barclays is also a leading provider of credit 
cards and lending in Norway, Sweden and 
Denmark via our EnterCard joint venture 
with Swedbank.

Private Bank and Overseas Services
In the Private Bank we focus on bespoke 
solutions, ranging from standard to 
sophisticated, for our high net worth, 
ultra-high net worth and family office clients. 
Overseas services offers banking, investment 
and credit products and services to local 
residents and businesses based in Jersey, 
Guernsey and the Isle of Man, and serves 
non-UK based corporates and fiduciaries 
who have UK banking, credit and investment 
requirements. International Banking delivers 
banking, savings, mortgages and investment 
products to affluent international customers.

Private Bank and Overseas Services delivered 
a strong performance during 2018. We 
continued to enhance our client offering with 
new products and services, which drove an 
underlying increase in client balances. The 
business delivered strong revenue growth 
year on year, and a good return on equity. 

We strive to build long-term value creation 
with our clients. Central to our strategy 
is continually enhancing our investment, 
banking and credit propositions. We have 
been developing differentiated capabilities in 
discretionary portfolio management, foreign 
exchange and real estate, and in bringing 
investment opportunities from our world-class 
Investment Bank.

Consumer, Cards 
& Payments
Consumer, Cards and Payments includes 
Cards & Payments and Private Bank & 
Overseas Services. Cards & Payments 
provides branded and co-branded 
consumer credit cards, lending and 
deposit accounts to our customers in the 
US and Germany, and payment solutions 
to our customers and clients in the UK. 
Private Bank & Overseas Services 
provides banking, credit and investment 
services to retail, high net worth and 
ultra-high net worth clients, family 
offices, businesses, corporates and 
fiduciaries internationally.

<Page End><Page Start>
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

World-class service provider
Barclays Execution Services

Customers and clients
■■ BUK and BI businesses –  

and their customers and clients

Products and services
■■ Technology
■■ Operations 
■■ Other functional services

Value creation
■■ To our customers and clients – 

delivering high quality services  
and an outstanding experience 

■■ To society –  
safety and continuity of services  
to the financial system

■■ To shareholders –  
generating efficiencies by  
transforming the way we do business

Paul Compton
CEO, Barclays Execution Services

Value creation

BX 
operating modelC

u
st

om
er

s 
an

d 
cli

ent
s Products and services

Overview
BX is the Group-wide service company providing 
technology, operations and functional services 
to businesses across the Group.

The initial catalyst for the creation of BX was 
the UK ring-fencing regulation and the need 
to ensure operational continuity. However, 
from day one, we have thought about BX 
strategically as an organisation that can drive 
productivity and capacity across Barclays. BX 
has a central role in Barclays' operating model 
supporting the performance of both the BI 
and the BUK businesses.

BX operates through centres of excellence 
which group complimentary processes and 
services together in order to offer consistency 
and efficiency of delivery. It is an organisation 
of scale and sophistication with nearly 
two-thirds of colleagues within the BX 
organisation.

2018 is the second year of operations for BX 
and we have gone from strength to strength. 
Through our centres of excellence we are 
delivering capacity to support investment 
in our businesses and drive exceptional 
customer service.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 39

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Strategy
The BX strategy is to be a world class provider of 
simple, efficient, innovative and secure services, 
which deliver customer and shareholder value.

We will achieve this by leveraging our centres 
of excellence to drive operational excellence 
and outstanding customer experience to 
create competitive advantage.

We remain focused on eliminating inefficiencies 
within the Group, creating capacity to enable 
investment both in our core infrastructure and 
in growth opportunities.

Bringing teams together creates opportunities 
to identify and share best practices and foster 
innovation. This delivers enhanced controls 
and security resulting in a more resilient 
organisation.

Market and operating environment 
In an era of high paced development, 
maintaining state of the art technology 
for our customers and colleagues is critical. 
Technology is a core enabler of our strategy 
and BX partners with BI and BUK to ensure 
that we continue to offer a market leading 
digital offering; for example, supporting the 
development of BUK's mobile banking 
application and developing enhanced 
electronic trading capabilities for BI's 
Equities business. 

Risks to the operating model
Robust management of operational risks have 
never been more important in financial services 
and Barclays is no exception. BX is at the 
forefront of actively managing the Group's 
operational risks. Key focus areas for BX include 
enhancing and maintaining the cyber defences 
and technology resilience that is critical. The 
threat of cybercrime remains a key risk and we 
continue to invest in keeping our customers and  
businesses safe. We have made major 
investments in our cyber defences, including in 
our global network of Security Joint Operation 
Centres. These are state of the art integrated 
facilities, providing 24/7 monitoring and 
response capability enabling a Group-wide 
collaborative response to threats and incidents 
potentially impacting our colleagues, customers 
and clients.

Technology resilience is at the heart of our 
approach to operational resilience. The demands 
of stakeholders including customers, markets 
and regulators, have never been greater in 
respect of this risk. We continue to invest to 
ensure the operational resilience and reliability 
of our technology infrastructure.

Key highlights of the year
Throughout 2018, we have delivered 
outstanding customer service and kept 
Barclays safe and secure.

In 2018, we successfully halved the 
onboarding cycle time for our clients across 
Corporate, Markets and Banking and 95% of 
Corporate new-to-bank clients say they have 
had a positive experience with their 
onboarding manager.

Our investments in resilience and in our cyber 
defences are enhancing the resilience of our 
operations. In addition, we have made major 
strides in moving our hosting solutions to the 
Cloud and this will remain an area of focus 
in 2019.

We have continued to develop our digital 
capability and in 2018 we added over 15,000 
clients onto our Corporate Banking iPortal 
platform, covering more than 80% of the 
customer base. In addition, we added more 
cash management services to the platform 
and launched the first mobile version.

In 2019, investment in iPortal will increase to 
allow the addition of: digital onboarding and 
servicing; improved user experience; extended 
transaction banking capabilities; and API 
accessibility to deliver a market leading 
Corporate Banking platform. We have 
developed strategic campus sites in 
Whippany, Glasgow and Pune which 
provide state of the art work spaces 
for our colleagues.

Our focus on our customers and clients 
remains relentless.

Paul Compton
CEO, Barclays Execution Services

Engaging with financial technology companies  
to drive innovation
Innovation plays a key role in solving Barclays' 
challenges, identifying new revenue and 
investment streams and building next-
generation products, services and platforms.  
One way of bringing innovation into the 
organisation is by harnessing the power 
of FinTech companies.

Known as the #homeoffintech, Rise, created 
by Barclays, is a global community of the 
world's top innovators working together with 
our colleagues, partners and clients, to create 
the future of financial services. Rise operates 
state-of-the-art workspaces in key cities 
across the world, including London, New 
York, Tel Aviv and Mumbai. Today, we have 
over 250 Technology companies who are 
based at Rise, along with a virtual community 
of over 6,000 members.

Rise is home to the Barclays Accelerator, 
powered by Techstars. Now in its fifth year, 
this 13-week programme is designed to 
tackle some of Barclays' biggest challenges, 
as well as shape and scale the next 
generation of FinTech businesses. To date, 
we've had over 140 companies graduate 
from the programme. Their combined 
valuation is estimated at £550m.

This year, we launched ‘Rise Growth 
Investments', making up to £10 million of 
investment capital available to each class of 
ten companies coming through the Barclays 
Accelerator. These funds would provide 
financial support at a key growth stage for 
FinTech companies working with us on 
strategic opportunities, reflecting Barclays' 
commitment to mutual growth and success.

<Page End><Page Start>
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 
Governance compliance

Leadership
The Barclays PLC Board of Directors (the Board) 
is responsible for the overall leadership of the 
Barclays Group, including establishing its 
Purpose, Values and Strategy and satisfying 
itself as to the alignment of Barclays' culture to 
its Purpose, Values and Strategy. In 2018, the 
Board approved a new common Purpose for 
the Barclays Group – Creating opportunities to 
rise – which reflects Barclays' entrepreneurial 
spirit, relentless quest for better customer and 
client centricity, and our commitments to 
society at large and to our colleagues.

The Board is also responsible for ensuring 
that management maintains a sound system 
of audit, risk management, compliance and 
internal control.

There is clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman, who runs the Board, 
and the Group Chief Executive, who manages 
the Barclays Group on a day-to-day basis. 
Individual roles on the Board and their 
responsibilities are set out in Barclays' Charter 
of Expectations. Pursuant to the Charter of 
Expectations, non-executive Directors provide 
effective oversight, strategic guidance and 
constructive challenge, help to develop 
proposals on strategy and empower the 
executive Directors to implement the strategy, 
while holding the executive Directors to 
account. The Senior Independent Director 
provides a sounding board for the Chairman 
and acts as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary.

Effectiveness
A majority of the Board – 12 of the 15 
Directors – are independent non-executive 
Directors and, as required by The Code, the 
Chairman was independent on appointment.

In accordance with the recommendations of 
The Code, the independence of Tim Breedon, 
Reuben Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo – all of 
whom have served on the Board for more than 
six years – was subjected to a more rigorous 
review. The Board remains satisfied that the 
lengths of their tenure have no impact on 
their respective levels of independence or the 
effectiveness of their contributions. Having 
served on the Board for nine years, both 
Reuben and Dambisa will be retiring from 
the Board at this year's AGM and will not, 
therefore, be standing for re-election.

The composition of the principal Board 
Committees meets the independence 
criteria of The Code, and there is 
appropriate cross-membership to 
further promote effectiveness.

All appointments to the Board are based on 
merit and objective criteria, in the context of 
Barclays' strategic direction and the diversity 
of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, 
cognitive and personal strengths, as well as 
skills, knowledge and experience required 
for the Board to be effective. Appointments 
are made following a formal, rigorous and 
transparent process.

Diversity, particularly at Board and senior 
leadership levels across the Barclays Group, 
remains a key area of focus. The Barclays 
Group recognises and embraces the benefits 
of a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board 
level as an essential element in maintaining 
a competitive advantage. The Nominations 
Committee regularly reviews the composition 
of the Board and the Board Committees. It 
frequently considers a skills matrix for the 
Board, which identifies the core competencies, 
skills, diversity and experience required for the 
Board to deliver its strategic aims and govern 
the Barclays Group effectively. To the extent 
that the Nominations Committee identifies 
any gaps in the Board's profile – which may 
be a result of the forthcoming retirement 
of a Director, or in response to changing 
market needs – that information is used 
to inform the search for a new Director or 
Directors. For example, as at the date of this 
report, there are four female Directors (27%) 
against a target of having 33% female 
representation on the Board by 2020, to which 
we remain committed. 

Potential new Directors are asked to disclose 
their significant commitments, and to give 
an indication of the time spent on those 
commitments, on the basis that all Directors 
are expected to allocate sufficient time to 
their role on the Board in order to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. In 2018, the 
attendance of Directors at scheduled Board 
meetings was 100% and the attendance 
of Directors at additional Board meetings 
(which were often called on short notice) 
was strong, at 95%.

All Directors are expected to 
allocate sufficient time to their 
role on the Board in order to 
discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. In 2018, the 
attendance of Directors at 
scheduled Board meetings 
was 100%.
Directors are now obliged to obtain pre-
clearance prior to taking on any additional 
commitments, including but not limited to 
directorships, and to indicate in the clearance 
request the likely time commitment involved. 
For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as 
at the date of this report, the Board is satisfied 
that none of the Directors is over-committed.

Directors are subject to election or re-election 
each year by shareholders at the AGM. 

The effectiveness of the Board, the Board 
Committees and the individual Directors has 
been assessed in a process facilitated by an 
independent third party. Further information 
regarding the process for the review of the 
Board, the Board Committees and the 
individual Directors' effectiveness can be 
found in the Nominations Committee report 
on page 68.

Accountability
The Board is responsible for setting Barclays' 
risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is 
prepared to take in the context of achieving 
Barclays' strategic objectives.

Barclays' Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) is designed to identify and 
set minimum requirements in respect of the 
main risks to strategy execution. The key 
elements of the Barclays Group's system of 
risk management and internal control are set 
out in the risk frameworks relating to each of 
our eight Principal Risks – Credit risk, Market 
risk, Treasury and Capital risk, Operational 
risk, Model risk, Reputation risk, Conduct risk 
and Legal risk – and the Barclays Control 
Framework, which details requirements for 
the delivery of control responsibilities. 
Frameworks, policies and standards applicable 
to the Barclays Group under the ERMF also set 
out the approaches to meet applicable legal 
and regulatory requirements relating to 
internal control and assurance.

The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (The Code)
A snapshot of how Barclays complies with the requirements of The Code is set out below. For further information, see pages 83 to 88.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 41

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report
Strategic report

Regular reports are made to the Board 
covering significant risks to the Barclays 
Group. Key controls are assessed on a 
regular basis for both design and operating 
effectiveness. The Risk Committee and the 
Reputation Committee examine reports 
covering the Principal Risks as well as reports 
on risk measurement methodologies and risk 
appetite. The Audit Committee oversees the 
control environment (and remediation of 
related issues), and assesses the adequacy of 
credit impairment. The Board reports on the 
risks faced by the Barclays Group in the annual 
viability statement on pages 42 and 43.

The Audit Committee, comprising 
independent non-executive Directors, 
oversees the effectiveness of Barclays' 
internal and external auditors.

Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, which comprises 
independent non-executive Directors, sets the 
overarching principles and parameters of 
remuneration policy across the Barclays Group 
and approves the remuneration arrangements 
of the Chairman, the executive Directors, 
other senior executives and certain Barclays 
Group employees.

The Barclays Group's remuneration 
philosophy links remuneration to achieving 
sustained high performance and creating 
long-term value.

The remuneration structure for employees 
is closely aligned with that for executive 
Directors, the primary exceptions being 
that the executive Directors participate in 
the Barclays' Long Term Incentive Plan and 
receive part of their pay in Barclays PLC shares.

To ensure alignment with shareholder 
interests, a significant proportion of the 
potential remuneration of the executive 
Directors is variable and is therefore 
performance related. It is also subject to 
deferral, additional holding periods, malus 
and clawback.

Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to 
malus. Clawback also applies to any variable 
remuneration awarded to Material Risk Takers 
after 1 January 2015.

Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to promoting 
effective channels of communication with our 
shareholders and upholding good corporate 
governance as a means of building stronger 
and more engaged relationships with them.

The Directors, in conjunction with the senior 
executive team and Investor Relations, 
participate in varied forms of engagement 
with institutional investors, including investor 
meetings, seminars and conferences across 
many geographic locations, reflecting the 
diverse nature of our equity and debt 
institutional ownership. The Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, together with 
other Board representatives and the Company 
Secretary, hold investor meetings focused on 
corporate governance matters. The Group 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
also hold quarterly results briefings and 
maintain a dialogue with investors.

We continue to communicate with our private 
shareholders through shareholder mailings. 
Shareholders can also choose to sign up to 
Shareview so that they receive information 
about Barclays PLC and their shareholding 
directly by email.

The Board and the senior executive 
team consider the AGM as a key date for 
engagement with shareholders. A number 
of Directors, including the Chairman, are 
available for informal discussion either 
before or after the meeting.

The Senior Independent Director is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns that 
have not been addressed through the 
normal channels.

A revised version of The Code was published 
in 2018, and came into effect for financial 
years beginning on or after 1 January 2019 
(The New Code). We will report against the 
requirements of The New Code and The 
Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018, which were also published 
last year and came into effect for our financial 
year beginning on 1 January 2019, in our next 
Annual Report.

Acknowledging the heightened focus 
in The New Code on the need for boards 
to understand the views of their key 
stakeholders, and to report annually on 
how their interests have been considered in 
board discussions and decision-making, the 
Board is reviewing its existing engagement 
mechanisms with colleagues, shareholders 
and other key stakeholders. For more details 
of how we engage with our workforce, in 
particular, please refer to the ‘Governance 
reporting for 2019' section on page 88.

The composition of the  
principal Board Committees 
meets the independence 
criteria of The Code, and there 
is appropriate cross-membership 
to further promote effectiveness.

<Page End><Page Start>
42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance compliance

Viability statement

Time horizon
In light of the analysis summarised below, 
the Board has assessed the Group's current 
viability, and confirms that the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the next three 
years. This time frame is used in management's 
Working Capital and Viability Report (WCR), 
prepared at February 2019. The availability 
of the WCR gives management and the Board 
sufficient visibility and confidence on the 
future operating environment for this time 
period. The three-year time frame has also 
been chosen because:
■■ it is within the period covered by the 

Group's future projections of profitability, 
cash flows, capital requirements and capital 
resources

■■ it is also within the period over which 
regulatory and internal stress testing is 
carried out; and

■■ it is representative of the continued level 
of regulatory change in the financial 
services industry.

The Directors are satisfied that this period is 
sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment 
of viability to be made. 

Considerations 
In making their assessment the Board has:
■■ carried out a robust and detailed 

assessments of the Group's risk profile 
and material existing and emerging risks. 
Notable among these are risks which senior 
management believe could cause the 
Group's future results of operations or 
financial condition to differ materially from 
current expectations or could adversely 
impact the Group's ability to maintain 
minimum levels of regulatory capital, 
liquidity, funding and the minimum 
requirement for own funds and eligible 
liabilities (‘MREL') over the period of the 
assessment

■■ reviewed how those risks are identified, 
managed and controlled (further detail 
provided on pages 137 to 148)

■■ considered the WCR which provides an 
assessment of forecast CET1, leverage 
ratio, Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as 
well as the build-up of MREL up to 2022

■■ reviewed the Group's liquidity and funding 
profile, including forecasts of Barclays' 
internal liquidity risk appetite (LRA) and 
regulatory liquidity coverage ratios

■■ considered the Group's viability under 
specific internal and regulatory stress 
scenarios

■■ considered the stability of the major 
markets in which it operates, the risks 
posed by the simplification of the business 
model and regulatory changes

■■ considered scenarios which might affect 
the operational resiliency of the Group

■■ reviewed the draft statutory accounts and 
the in-depth disclosure of the financial 
performance of the Group

■■ considered the Group's medium-term plan 
(MTP); and

■■ reviewed the legal, competition and 
regulatory matters set out in Note 27 to the 
financial statements on pages 315 to 322.

Assessment
Risks faced by the Group's business, 
including in respect of financial, conduct and 
operational risk, are controlled and managed 
within the Group in line with the Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework. Executive 
management set a Risk Appetite for the 
Group, which is then approved by the Board. 
Risk and Compliance set limits, within which 
businesses are required to operate. 
Management and the Board then oversee the 
ongoing Risk Profile. Internal Audit provide 
independent assurance to the Board and 
Executive Committee over the effectiveness 
of governance, risk management and control 
over current and evolving risks.

A full set of material risks to which the 
organisation is exposed can be found in the 
Material existing and emerging risks on pages 
131 to 136. Certain risks are additionally 
identified as key themes and monitored 
closely by the Board and Board Committees. 
Certain particular risks to viability identified by 
the Board are detailed below. These have been 
chosen on the basis of their ability to impact 
viability over the timeframe of the assessment 
but in some instances the risks exist beyond 
this timeframe.These particular risks include:

■■ The consequences from the UK's 
anticipated exit from the EU market and 
Customs Union are unpredictable and 
diverse and may impact over a prolonged 
period. In particular, a significant 
deterioration in the macro-economic 
environment in the UK and Europe could 
lead to increased credit rating downgrades 
of the UK sovereign and the Barclays Group, 
significantly increasing borrowing costs, 
widening credit spreads and materially 
adversely affect the Group's interest 
margins and liquidity position. 

■■ legal proceedings, competition, regulatory 
and conduct matters giving rise to the 
potential risk of fines, loss of regulatory 
licences and permissions and other 
sanctions, as well as potential adverse 
impacts on our reputation with clients 
and customers and on investor confidence 
and/or potentially resulting in impacts 
on capital, liquidity and funding

■■ sudden shocks or geopolitical unrest in any 
of the major economies in which the bank 
operates which could impact credit ratings, 
alter the behaviour of depositors and other 
counterparties and affect the ability of the 
firm to maintain appropriate capital and 
liquidity ratios; and

■■ evolving operational risks (notably 
cybersecurity, technology and resilience) 
and the ability to respond to the new and 
emergent technologies in a controlled 
fashion.

As a diversified, transatlantic bank with global 
reach, Barclays is impacted in the longer term 
by a wide range of macroeconomic, political, 
regulatory and accounting, technological and 
social developments. The evolving operating 
environment presents opportunities and risks 
which we continue to evaluate and take steps 
to appropriately adapt our strategy and its 
delivery. Notably, the consequences of the 
withdrawal of the UK from the European 
Union and the associated economic and 
operational risks have received significant 
management attention, particularly, given 
the greater uncertainty this is likely to cause 
in 2019.

The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 – Section (C.2.2)
The financial statements and accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.  
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code (2016) – Section (C.2.2) requires the Directors to make a statement in the Annual Report 
regarding the viability of the Group, including explaining how they assessed the prospects of the Group, the period of time for which they 
have made the assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 43

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Stress tests 
The Board has also considered the Group's 
viability under specific internal and regulatory 
stress scenarios.

The Board reviewed external regulatory stress 
test results which are designed to assess 
the resilience of banks to adverse economic 
developments and confirm that we have 
robust forward-looking planning processes for 
the risks associated with our business profile.

In addition, the latest macroeconomic internal 
stress test, conducted in Q4 2018, considered 
the potential impacts of:
■■ a severe UK recession triggered by the 

UK leaving the EU with no transitional 
arrangements including falling property 
prices which fail to recover over the forecast 
horizon and rising unemployment

■■ significant weakness in the US economy 
post 2019 as the stimulative effects of 
tax reform fade

■■ a sudden shortage of credit in China 
causing a global recession

■■ weakness in peripheral Europe driven by an 
aggressive fiscal easing pledged by the 
Italian Coalition Government. This weakness 
is exacerbated by the global economic 
slowdown in the US and China combined 
with trade tensions; and

■■ a major technological outage in the firm.

All of which could result in, among other 
things, a loss of income or increased 
impairment. The stress test outcome for 
macroeconomic tests shows our full financial 
performance over the horizon of the scenario 
and focuses on the CET1 capital ratio.

Legal proceedings, competition, regulatory 
and remediation/redress conduct matters 
ar so assessed as part of the stress testing 
process. Capital risk appetite and LRA are 
set at a level designed to enable the Group 
to withstand various stress scenarios. As 
part of this process, management also 
identified actions, including cost reductions 
and withdrawal from lines of business, 
available to restore the Group to its desired 
capital flightpath.

The Group-wide stress testing framework 
also includes reverse stress testing techniques 
which aim to identify and analyse the 
circumstances under which the Group's 
business model would no longer be viable. 
Examples include extreme macroeconomic 
downturn scenarios, or specific idiosyncratic 
events, covering operational risk (for example, 
cyberattack), adverse outcomes in legal 
proceedings, competition, regulatory and 
conduct matters and capital/liquidity events.

We use an inventory of models, quantitative 
procedures and judgement to support the 
stress test calculations and projections. These 
tools range from experienced management 
judgement through to sophisticated financial 
and behavioural models. The stress test 
evaluation process produces both gross 
impacts and the effect of mitigation including 
management actions. This enables us to 
understand, monitor and control the risks 
identified. The stress testing process is 
overseen by a governance structure from the 
Board through executive business and risk 
committees. Management believes that the 
internal and external stress testing process 
considers a wide range of severe but plausible 
events. However, stress tests should not be 
assumed to be an exhaustive assessment 
of all possible hypothetical extreme or 
remote scenarios.

These internal and external stress tests 
informed the conclusions of the WCR. Based 
on current forecasts, incorporating key known 
regulatory changes to be enacted and having 
considered possible stress scenarios, the 
current liquidity and capital position of the 
Group continues to support the Board's 
assessment of the Group's viability.

For a statement as to our dividend policy 
please see page 89.

The Board's assessment of the Group's 
viability over the next three years is subject 
to material existing and emerging risks 
highlighted on pages 131 to 136.

<Page End><Page Start>
44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

We use a variety of tools to track and 
measure our strategic delivery and collect 
both quantitative and qualitative information 
to get the full picture of our performance. We 
are also committed to maintaining a robust 
internal and external assurance process for 
our key metrics, ensuring that we have strong 
controls and clear data management in place.

The Non-Financial Reporting requirements 
contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the 
Companies Act 2006 are addressed within this 
section by means of reference in order to 
indicate which part of the strategic narrative 
(within this document, or available online) the 
respective requirements are embedded. We 
have used references to avoid disrupting or 
duplicating the narrative flow, in the spirit of 
clear, concise and transparent reporting. 

Non-financial information and the delivery of 
non-financial benefits for our stakeholders is 
integrated into the strategy of Barclays. Our 
business model on page 14 encompasses the 
non-financial value created for our stakeholders 
from our resources and relationships of the 
Group. This value creation is measured through 
our performance measures. 

The principal risks related to the non-financial 
matters are shown alongside the financial 
principal risks on page 28, along with 
a description of their management,

Our non-financial performance measures 
shown on pages 19 to 27 ensure we maintain 
accountability and deliver for a wider range of 
stakeholders. Delivery for our colleagues is 
discussed in detail within the Colleague section 
within our KPI framework, and the culture that 
fosters this environment is discussed in further 
detail on page 11, and within the People section 
on pages 93 to 98. In respect of environmental 
matters, we assess our performance through 
our Citizenship lens, in addition to providing 
granular level information in our 2018 ESG 
Report. The report also discusses our position 
in society, respect for human rights and 
anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters 
in more detail.

We have a range of policies and guidance 
(available at home.barclays/citizenship/
our-reporting-and-policy-positions/ and shown 
opposite) that support our key outcomes for 
our customers and clients, colleagues and 
citizenship activity. Performance against our 
strategic non-financial performance measures, 
as shown on pages 19 to 27, is one indicator of 
the effectiveness and outcome of policies and 
guidance. The due diligence carried out for each 
policy is contained within each respective policy 
documentation. Policies are reviewed annually 
by the appropriate Board Committee, including 
an assessment of the effectiveness of the Policy 
with any recommendations for revisions made 
to the Board for approval.

Extensive non-financial reporting can also be 
found in our 2018 ESG Report at home.
barclays/citizenship

Each policy is available for downloading  
from home.barclays/citizenship/ 
our-reporting-and-policy-positions

Measurement and reporting of non-financial matters is  
key to Barclays and we firmly believe that what is being 
measured is being managed, hence, our continuous effort  
at improving and refining our non-financial reporting.

Areas of the Non-financial information statement are reflected by way of reference to the 
following locations:

Non-financial information Section Page

Business model Business model 14

Policies Non-financial information statement 45

Principal risks Risk review
Risk management
Risk performance

127
137 
149

Key performance indicators Key performance indicators 18

Non-financial information statement
Governance compliance

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 45

G
overn

an
ce

R
isk review

Fin
an

cial review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Strategic report

Across Barclays, policies and statements of intent are in place to ensure consistent governance on a range of issues.  
For the purposes of the Non-Financial Reporting requirements, these include, but are not limited to: 

Non-financial interests

Environmental matters
Policy statement Description

Energy and Climate Change statement Our new Energy and Climate Change statement sets out our approach to energy sectors 
with higher carbon-related exposures from extraction or consumption, and/or those with 
an impact in certain sensitive environments, namely thermal coal, Arctic oil and gas, and oil 
sands. The statement outlines the important role Barclays plays in ensuring that the world's 
energy needs are met, while helping to limit the threat that climate change poses to people 
and to the natural environment.

World Heritage Site  
and Ramsar Wetlands statement

We understand that certain industries, and in particular mining, oil and gas and power, can 
have negative impacts on areas of high biodiversity value including UNESCO World Heritage 
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands. We recognise that financing projects located in these areas can 
impact on the outstanding universal value that they provide. Our World Heritage Site and 
Ramsar Wetlands statement outlines our due diligence approach to preserving and 
safeguarding these sites.

Environmental risk We have a strong commitment to managing the environmental risks associated with 
commercial lending and recognise that a bank's major environmental impacts tend to be 
indirect, arising from the provision of financial services to business customers. We believe that 
taking due account of our environmental impacts is not only the right thing to do, but also 
makes good business sense.

Employees
Policy statement Description

Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy (‘the Policy') sets out the approach to diversity on the Boards of 
Directors of Barclays PLC. 

Code of Conduct The Barclays Code of Conduct outlines the Values and Behaviours which govern our way of 
working across our business globally. It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of 
colleagues' working relationships, specifically (but not exclusively) with other Barclays 
employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, 
competitors and the broader community.

Health, safety and welfare Our commitment is to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our employees and to provide 
and maintain safe working conditions. Effective management of health and safety will have a 
positive effect on the services we provide. Good working environments will help our 
employees to perform better in serving our customers, which in turn will create value for all 
our stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders and the communities that we serve.

Equality and Diversity Charter Barclays Equality and Diversity Charter governs the approach for employees of the Group. 
A diverse employee-base will include and make good use of differences in the skills, regional 
and industry experience, background, race, gender and other distinctions between employees, 
with all appointments made on merit.

<Page End><Page Start>
46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Social matters
Policy statement Description

Donations Barclays works in partnership with non-profit organisations, including charities and NGOs, to 
develop high-performing programmes and volunteering opportunities that harness the skills 
and passion of Barclays' employees. Barclays Citizenship has chosen to partner with a small 
number of organisations, allowing us to have deeper relationships and ultimately enabling us 
to have the greatest impact on the communities in which we operate. For this reason, we are 
unable to provide funding to many of the individual requests we receive. Barclays does not 
accept unsolicited donation requests.

Tax Our Tax Principles are central to our approach to tax planning, for ourselves or on behalf 
of our clients. Since their introduction in 2013 we believe our Tax Principles have been a 
strong addition to the way we manage tax, ensuring that we take into account all of our 
stakeholders when making decisions related to our tax affairs. The same applies to our Tax 
Code of Conduct.

Sanctions Sanctions are restrictions on activity with targeted countries, governments, entities, 
individuals and industries that are imposed by bodies such as the United Nations (UN), 
the European Union (EU), individual countries or groups of countries. The Barclays Group 
Sanctions Policy is designed to ensure that the Group complies with applicable sanctions 
laws in every jurisdiction in which it operates.

The defence industry Barclays has a strong and long-standing commitment to managing the social and ethical 
risks associated with lending and other types of financial services. We provide financial 
services to the defence sector within a specific policy framework. Each proposal is assessed 
on a case-by-case basis and legal compliance alone does not automatically guarantee our 
support. The Barclays Statement on the Defence Sector outlines our approach and 
appetite to Defence-related transactions and relationships.

Human rights
Policy statement Description

Human rights We operate in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and take account 
of other internationally accepted human rights standards. We also promote human rights 
through our employment policies and practices, through our supply chain and through the 
responsible use of our products and services.

Modern slavery Barclays recognises its responsibility to comply with all relevant legislation including the 
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. In accordance with the requirements of the Act, we release 
an annual Barclays Group Statement on Modern Slavery. This includes work on combating 
modern slavery in our operations, supply chain, and with clients and customers.

Supply chain Our supply chain helps us deliver for all our customers, clients and colleagues. Our supply 
base is diverse, including start-ups, small and medium-sized businesses, and businesses 
owned, controlled and operated by under-represented segments of society as well as 
multinational corporations. We recognise that these partnerships have significant direct 
and indirect environmental and social impacts. We actively encourage our supplier partners 
to meet Barclays' requirements in order to meet our obligations to our stakeholders.

Data protection Across Barclays, the privacy and security of personal information is respected and protected. 
Our Privacy Statement governs how we collect, handle, store, share, use and dispose of 
information about people. We regard sound privacy practices as a key element of corporate 
governance and accountability.

Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Policy statement Description

Bribery and corruption We recognise that corruption can undermine the rule of law, democratic processes and basic 
human freedoms, impoverishing states and distorting free trade and competition. Our statement 
reflects the statutory requirements applicable in the UK as derived from the United Nations and 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development conventions on corruption.

Anti-money laundering and  
counter-terrorist financing

Barclays Anti-Money Laundering Policy is designed to ensure that we comply with the 
requirements and obligations set out in UK legislation, regulations, rules and industry guidance 
for the financial services sector, including the need to have adequate systems and controls 
in place to mitigate the risk of the bank being used to facilitate financial crime.

Governance compliance

Non-financial information statement

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 47

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Governance

This section sets out our corporate governance processes 
and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our 
strategy, including reports from the Chairman and each 
of the Board Committee Chairs.

Directors' report Page
How we comply with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 48

Chairman's introduction 49

Who we are ■■ Board of Directors 51
■■ Group Executive Committee 53

What we did in 2018 ■■ Board report 54
■■ Board Audit Committee report 58
■■ Board Nominations Committee report 68
■■ Board Reputation Committee report 73
■■ Board Risk Committee report 77

How we comply 83

Other statutory information 89

People 93

Remuneration report 99

<Page End><Page Start>
48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

How we comply with  
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016

Governance: Directors' report

Leadership Page
Every company should be headed 
by an effective board which is 
collectively responsible for the 
long-term success of the company.
■■ Composition of the Board
■■ Board of Directors

50
51

There should be a clear division 
of responsibilities at the head of 
the company between the running 
of the board and the executive 
responsibility for the running of 
the company's business. No one 
individual should have unfettered 
powers of decision.
■■ Roles on the Board 83

The chairman is responsible 
for leadership of the board and 
ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of its role.
■■ Roles on the Board 83

As part of their role as members 
of a unitary board, non-executive 
directors should constructively 
challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy.
■■ Roles on the Board 83

Effectiveness Page
The board and its committees 
should have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge 
of the company to enable them 
to discharge their respective duties 
and responsibilities effectively.
■■ Board of Directors
■■ Board diversity

51
50

There should be a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new directors to 
the board.
■■ Appointment and re-election 

of Directors 89

All directors should be able to 
allocate sufficient time to the 
company to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively.
■■ Board of Directors
■■ Attendance
■■ Time commitment

51 
84 
85

All directors should receive 
induction on joining the board 
and should regularly update and 
refresh their skills and knowledge.
■■ Induction
■■ Training and development

85 
85

The board should be supplied in 
a timely manner with information in 
a form and of a quality appropriate 
to enable it to discharge its duties.
■■ Information provided to the 

Board 86

The board should undertake 
a formal and rigorous annual 
evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees and 
individual directors.
■■ Review of Board and Board 

Committee effectiveness 86

All directors should be submitted 
for re-election at regular 
intervals, subject to continued 
satisfactory performance.
■■ Composition of the Board
■■ Appointment and re-election 

of Directors

50 
 

89

Accountability Page
The board should present a fair, 
balanced and understandable 
assessment of the company's 
position and prospects.
■■ Strategic report
■■ Risk management
■■ Viability statement

2 
129 

42

The board is responsible for 
determining the nature and extent 
of the principal risks it is willing 
to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. The board should 
maintain sound risk management 
and internal control systems.
■■ Risk management and 

internal control 86

The board should establish formal 
and transparent arrangements 
for considering how they should 
apply the corporate reporting, risk 
management and internal control 
principles and for maintaining an 
appropriate relationship with the 
company's auditors.
■■ Board Audit Committee report
■■ Accountability

58 
86

Remuneration Page
Executive directors' remuneration 
should be designed to promote 
the long-term success of the 
company. Performance-related 
elements should be transparent, 
stretching and rigorously applied.
■■ Remuneration report 99

There should be a formal 
and transparent procedure for 
developing policy on executive 
remuneration and for fixing 
the remuneration packages of 
individual directors. No director 
should be involved in deciding 
his or her own remuneration.
■■ Remuneration report 99

Relations with 
shareholders Page
There should be a dialogue 
with shareholders based on 
the mutual understanding of 
objectives. The board as a whole 
has responsibility for ensuring 
that a satisfactory dialogue 
with shareholders takes place.
■■ Shareholder engagement 87

The board should use general 
meetings to communicate with 
investors and to encourage 
their participation.
■■ Shareholder engagement 87

The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (The Code)
The Code is not a rigid set of rules. It consists of principles (main and supporting) and provisions. The Listing Rules require companies to apply 
the main principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.

You can find our disclosures as follows:

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 49

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Chairman's introduction
Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
Our aim is to ensure that our governance is 
fit for purpose, and in line with best practice 
among FTSE100 companies. I remain firmly 
of the view that the role of the Board is to 
create long-term sustainable value for the 
benefit of our shareholders and our wider 
stakeholders. To achieve this, it is vital that 
Barclays has a robust corporate governance 
framework, which provides systems of checks 
and controls to ensure accountability and 
promotes sound decision-making. It is critical 
that we have policies and practices in place 
which ensure that each of the Board and the 
Board Committees, and the wider Barclays 
Group, operates effectively, a factor that 
was at the forefront of our thinking when 
undertaking structural reform. A key element 
of structural reform was a review of the 
governance processes across the Barclays 
Group in order to ensure the effective operation 
of each of the individual boards and their 
respective committees, recognising that this 
is vital to the development and execution 
of the Barclays Group's strategy.

Establishment of our ring-fenced bank, 
and completion of structural reform
Following the financial crisis, the UK 
government developed legislation to require 
UK banks to separate their retail banking 
activities from other activities within their 
groups. The ring-fencing requirements, 
which came into effect on 1 January 2019, 
are intended to strengthen the UK financial 
system by simplifying banking groups and 
thus reducing the likelihood that customers 
and clients – and the day-to-day services that 
they rely upon – will be put at risk by a failure 
in another part of the business or shocks 
originating in global financial markets.

Barclays was the first UK bank to be granted 
approval for its ring-fencing scheme, and the 
establishment of our ring-fenced bank was 
a significant event in our history. Barclays PLC 
remains the parent company of the Barclays 
Group. The Barclays Group is organised 
into two clearly defined business divisions – 
Barclays UK and Barclays International. 
These are housed in two banking subsidiaries 
– Barclays UK sits within Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, and Barclays International sits within 
Barclays Bank PLC – which operate alongside 
Barclays Services Limited but, in accordance 
with the requirements of ring-fencing 

legislation, independently from one another. 
Barclays Services Limited drives efficiencies 
in delivering operational and technology 
services across the Barclays Group. Each 
of these subsidiaries has its own separately 
constituted board, comprising of both 
executive and non-executive directors, with 
distinct responsibilities, which reflects the 
different natures of the respective companies. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 
also have their own board committees.

Central to this new corporate structure 
is a new corporate governance framework. 
In the course of preparing for structural 
reform it quickly became apparent that, 
in order for the Board and the Barclays Group 
to generate long-term sustainable value for 
shareholders, we required a governance 
framework that would provide the strong 
foundation needed for the effective 
management of the restructured Barclays 
Group. The new governance framework 
is therefore based on a number of core 
principles. It makes clear that, although the 
Barclays PLC Board is the ultimate decision-
making body for all board-level issues and 
matters that are significant to Barclays PLC, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, 
the subsidiary boards cannot be required 
to do or not do anything that conflicts with 
their legal and regulatory duties and/or 
responsibilities. Internal governance processes 
have also been developed to ensure the 
effective operation of the individual boards 
and board committees in recognition of the 
fact that this is key to the development and 
execution of the Barclays Group's strategy. 
In particular, there are provisions dealing with 
the escalation and resolution of any issues 
that might arise. While the interaction of the 
boards and board committees will inevitably 
evolve over time, it is recognised that the 
oversight, scrutiny and specialist input offered 
by the subsidiaries can and should contribute 
to promoting the success of Barclays for the 
benefit of its shareholders as a whole.

Governance reforms
In developing the new governance framework, 
the opportunity was taken to review our 
existing governance arrangements against 
the requirements of The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 (The New Code) and 
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018 (The Regulations). The New 

Code and The Regulations, both of which 
were published in 2018, represent a major 
milestone in the UK government's suite 
of corporate governance reforms which aim 
to build trust in business. They emphasise, 
in particular, the importance of board 
composition, culture, and the need for 
boards to understand the views of their key 
stakeholders and to report annually on how 
their interests have been considered in board 
discussions and decision-making. Barclays 
PLC will report against the requirements 
of The New Code and The Regulations 
in its annual report for the year ending 
31 December 2019.

Board composition
A number of changes were made to the 
boards of Barclays PLC and the subsidiaries in 
2018 to reflect the post-ring-fencing structure. 
These included the appointment of Sir Gerry 
Grimstone, who had been Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director of Barclays 
PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, as Chairman of 
Barclays Bank PLC and the appointment of 
Sir Ian Cheshire as Chairman of Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. Both Sir Gerry and Sir Ian are 
non-executive Directors of Barclays PLC.

Crawford Gillies succeeded Sir Gerry Grimstone 
as Senior Independent Director of Barclays 
PLC in April 2018. In that role, Crawford led 
the process to appoint Nigel Higgins as my 
successor. You can read more about the 
recruitment and appointment of our new 
Chairman in the ‘Governance in action' 
section of the Nominations Committee 
report on page 72.

In July 2018, Mary Anne Citrino joined Barclays 
PLC as a non-executive Director. Mary Anne's 
experience of the financial services sector 
brings additional knowledge and perspective 
to the Board, and her appointment reflects 
the ongoing work of the Nominations 
Committee to ensure that we have the right 
mix of individuals on the Board. You can read 
more about the work of the Nominations 
Committee on pages 68 to 72.

Mary Anne's appointment also brings 
female representation on the Board to 27%, 
which is a positive step towards achieving 
our diversity target of having 33% female 
representation on the Board by 2020, to 
which we remain committed.

The Board believes that its role is to create and preserve value, 
not just for shareholders but for all stakeholders and society 
more widely.

<Page End><Page Start>
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Chairman's introduction
Governance: Directors' report

Purpose, values and culture
As an organisation, we have evolved on 
nearly every level, in shape, size and ambition 
and, as we look to the future, we need to 
consider how we reflect the Barclays Group 
as it is today, and how we want it to be seen 
tomorrow. Our code of conduct, The Barclays 
Way, provides a clear path towards achieving 
a dynamic and positive culture within the 
Barclays Group by outlining our common 
purpose – Creating Opportunities to Rise – 
and values, which govern our way of working.

The Board receives regular reports on 
the alignment of Barclays' culture with its 
purpose, values and strategy as well as 
qualitative and quantitative feedback on 
matters of interest to colleagues through 
the Culture Dashboard, which measures 
and tracks our progress in embedding the 
desired culture, and the results of the 
Your View employee opinion surveys.

Personal accountability is central to our 
culture and how we behave is instrumental 
in our achieving the highest standards of 
performance, adding value to our customers 
and clients, and meeting our regulatory 
obligations. The Board believes that its role 
is to create and preserve value, not just for 
shareholders but for all stakeholders and 
society more widely. The impact of our 
behaviour and business on customers and 
clients, colleagues, wider society and the 
environment is monitored by the Board with 
support from the Reputation Committee, 
which tracks key indicators across the areas 
of culture, citizenship, conduct, and customer 
and client satisfaction on an ongoing basis. 
You can read more about the work of the 
Reputation Committee on pages 73 to 76.

Stakeholder engagement
We recognise the importance of listening 
to, and understanding the views of, our 
stakeholders – including colleagues – such 
that this information can be used to inform 
the Board's decision-making. The Directors 
look to engage with stakeholders of the 
Barclays Group throughout the year, and are 
kept informed of shareholder views through 
regular updates, with insights provided by the 
Head of Investor Relations and our brokers. 
Crawford Gillies, our Senior Independent 
Director, is also available to meet with investors 
and other stakeholders. You can read more 
about our current stakeholder engagement 
on pages 16 to 17.

A new regime for 2019
The New Code and The Regulations came 
into effect on 1 January 2019, and apply to 
reporting on financial years beginning on 
or after that date. We will, therefore, report 
against their requirements in Barclays PLC's 
next Annual Report. However, for a description 
of how we comply with The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2016 (The Code) – and 
certain enhancements already made to 
our governance practices to reflect the 
requirements of The New Code and The 
Regulations – please refer to the ‘Governance 
reporting for 2019' section on page 88.

Board effectiveness
An effective Board is key to the establishment 
and delivery of a company's strategy and 
we therefore continually seek to improve the 
effectiveness of your Board. One of the ways 
in which we have done this in 2018 is through 
a Board effectiveness review facilitated by 
Independent Board Evaluation, an independent, 
external corporate governance consultancy. 
We have, in recent years, commissioned 
annually an external assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Board, the Board 
Committees and the Directors, notwithstanding 
that the requirement is to do so only every 
three years. More information on the 2018 
effectiveness review, and our progress against 
the findings of the 2017 effectiveness review, 
can be found on page 86. We are also pleased 
to report that, although not required by The 
Code, the boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC have also elected to engage 
Independent Board Evaluation in order to 
review and enhance their effectiveness and 
ensure that they are operating optimally. 
We look forward to the unique perspective 
those reviews will provide as to the interaction 
of the boards and board committees of these 
companies, and the fitness for purpose of 
our new governance framework.

Looking ahead
The key areas of focus for 2019 will be 
embedding the new corporate governance 
framework, and enhancing our governance 
practices such that we can ensure our 
compliance with The New Code and The 
Regulations. 2019 will also be a year for 
us to learn from the practical application 
of this governance framework and the related 
processes in order to ensure that we have 
a clear frame of reference in relation to 
decision making, oversight and escalation, 
and the delivery of functional support that 
works for your Barclays Group and promotes 
the long-term sustainable success of the 
Barclays Group.

John McFarlane
Chairman
20 February 2019

Board composition
Balance of non-executive Directors: 
executive Directors
Chairman
1

Executive Directors
2

Non-executive Directors
12

Gender balance
Female
4

Male
11

Length of tenure
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)

1

2

3

1 0-3 years 5
2 3-6 years 7
3 6-9 years 3

Industry experience
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)*

1 Financial Services 13 (100%)
2 Political/regulatory experience 12 (92%)
3 Current/recent Chair/CEO 5 (38%)
4 Accountancy/auditing 2 (15%)
5 Operations and Technology 2 (15%)
6 Retail/marketing 1 (8%)

International experience†
(Chairman and non-executive Directors)*

1 International (UK) 10 (77%)
2 International (US) 3 (23%)
3 International (Rest of the World) 3 (23%)

Notes
* Individual Directors may fall into one or more 

categories.
† In relation to board experience based on the 

location of the headquarters/registered office 
of a company.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 51

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Who we are – Board of Directors
Governance: Directors' report

John McFarlane
Chairman

Appointed: 
1 January 2015

Relevant skills and experience
John is the Chair of Barclays PLC. He is a senior figure 
in global banking and financial services circles having 
spent 43 years in the sector, including time at Aviva, 
The Royal Bank of Scotland, Standard Chartered and 
CitiBank UK.
John was recently awarded the Freedom of the 
City of London by Special Nomination for his 
outstanding achievements in the field of banking.
John brings considerable leadership, Group oversight 
and banking experience to the Board and his roles 
outside Barclays are supportive of this.
Key current appointments
Chairman, TheCityUK; Member, Financial Services 
Trade and Investment Board; Director, Old Oak 
Holdings Limited; Supervisory Board Member, 
Unibail-Rodamco Westfield S.E.; Cranfield School 
of Management Advisory Board; Member, Institut 
International d'Etudes Bancaires; Member, President's 
Committee Confederation of British Industry
Committees
Nominations (Chair)

Jes Staley
Group Chief 
Executive

Appointed: 
1 December 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Jes has nearly four decades of extensive experience 
in banking and financial services. He brings a wealth 
of investment banking knowledge to the Board as 
well as strong executive leadership. 
He previously worked for more than 30 years at 
JP Morgan where he initially trained as a commercial 
banker, later advancing to the leadership of major 
businesses involving equities, private banking and 
asset management and ultimately heading the 
company's Global Investment Bank.
Key current appointments
Board member, Bank Policy Institute; Board member, 
Institute of International Finance
Committees
None

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance 
Director

Appointed: 
15 October 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Tushar is a chartered accountant with over 
25 years of strategic financial management, 
investment banking, operational and regulatory 
relations experience. 
He joined Barclays from JP Morgan, where he 
held various senior roles including the CFO of its 
Corporate & Investment Bank at the time of the 
merger of the investment bank and the wholesale 
treasury/security services business.
Key current appointments
Member, 100 Group Main Committee; Chair, 
Sterling Risk Free Reference Rates Working Group
Committees
None

Crawford Gillies
Senior Independent 
Director

Appointed: 
1 May 2014

Relevant skills and experience
Crawford has extensive business and management 
experience at executive and board level spanning 
over 30 years. 
Beneficial to the Board and key to understanding 
stakeholder needs, is his experience in international 
and cross sector organisations, strong leadership 
and strategic decision-making. Gained from his 
former remuneration committee chairmanships at 
Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC and other 
current positions, Crawford brings to the Board 
robust remuneration experience.
Key current appointments
Non-executive director, SSE plc; Chairman, 
Edrington Group
Committees
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration (Chair)

Mike Ashley
Non-executive

Appointed: 
18 September 2013

Relevant skills and experience
Mike has deep knowledge of accounting, auditing 
and associated regulatory issues, having previously 
worked at KPMG for over 20 years. 
Mike's former roles as the lead engagement partner on 
the audits of large financial services groups including 
HSBC, Standard Chartered and the Bank of England, 
as Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG 
Europe LLP and as KPMG UK's Ethics Partner enable the 
Board to benefit from Mike's expertise in management 
of professional risks, quality control and understanding 
of ethical issues. His current Board and Committee 
positions outside of Barclays also support this.
Key current appointments
Member, Cabinet Office Board; Member, International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants; Member, 
ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee; Member, 
Charity Commission
Committees
Audit (Chair), Nominations, Risk, Reputation

Tim Breedon CBE
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 November 2012

Relevant skills and experience
Tim has extensive financial services experience, 
knowledge of risk management and UK and EU 
regulation, as well as an understanding of key 
investor issues and customer focus. 
He had a distinguished career with Legal & General, 
where, among other roles, he was the group 
CEO until June 2012 and this experience enables 
Tim to provide challenge, advice and support to 
management on performance and decision-making.
Key current appointments
Chairman, Apax Global Alpha Limited; Chairman, 
The Northview Group Limited
Committees
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk (Chair)

Sir Ian Cheshire
Non-executive

Appointed: 
3 April 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Ian is a member of the Board and is also 
Chair of Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
He brings to the Board substantial business experience 
particularly in the international retail sector from his 
lengthy executive career at the Kingfisher Group, as 
well as experience in sustainability and environmental 
matters. Sir Ian holds strong credentials in leadership, 
is involved with many charitable organisations, such 
as The Prince of Wales's Charitable Foundation and 
is highly regarded by the Government for his work 
with various Government departments.
Key current appointments
Chairman, Maisons du Monde; Chairman, Menhaden 
plc; Lead non-executive director for the Government; 
Trustee, Institute for Government
Committees
Nominations

Board of Directors
Barclays understands the importance of having a Board with the right balance of skills, 
experience and diversity, and the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board 
Nominations Committee. The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value 
they bring to the Barclays Board are highlighted below. 

Full biographies can be accessed online via home.barclays/investorrelations

<Page End><Page Start>
52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Mary Anne Citrino
Non-executive

Appointed: 
25 July 2018

Relevant skills and experience
Mary Anne is an experienced non-executive Director 
with considerable financial services and investment 
banking experience, following an executive career 
spanning over 20 years with Morgan Stanley.
Her current other non-executive positions and 
senior advisory role with Blackstone, coupled with 
her previous board and senior management level 
positions (with Dollar Tree Inc. Health Net, Inc, and 
Blackstone Advisory Partners) contribute to the 
wide-ranging global, strategic and advisory 
experience she can provide to the Board.
Key current appointments
Non-executive director, HP Inc.; Non-executive 
director, Ahold Delhaize N.V.; Non-executive director, 
Alcoa Corporation
Committees
Risk

Mary Francis CBE
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 October 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Mary has extensive and diverse board-level 
experience across a range of industries, which 
has developed from her previous non-executive 
directorships with Alliance & Leicester, Aviva, the 
Bank of England, Centrica and Swiss Re Group, 
her former executive positions and current roles. 
She brings to the Board strong understanding of 
the interaction between public and private sectors, 
skills in strategic decision-making and reputation 
management and promotes strong board 
governance values.
Key current appointments
Non-executive director, Ensco PLC; Member of 
Advisory Panel, The Institute of Business Ethics 
Member, UK Takeover Appeal Board 
Committees
Remuneration, Reputation (Chair)

Sir Gerry 
Grimstone
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 January 2016

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Gerry is a member of the Board and is also 
Chair of Barclays Bank PLC. 
He is highly respected in the banking industry and 
brings to the Board investment banking, financial 
services and commercial experience both at 
non-executive director and chairman level. Sir Gerry 
has global business experience across the UK, Asia, 
the Middle East and the US as a result of his former 
positions at Schroders and Standard Life Aberdeen 
plc as well as his other current positions.
Key current appointments
Chairman, The City UK China Market Advisory 
Group; Lead non-executive, Ministry of Defence; 
Member, Financial Services Trade and Investment 
Board; Public interest non-executive director, 
Deloitte NWE LLP
Committees
Nominations

Reuben Jeffery III
Non-executive

Appointed: 
16 July 2009

Relevant skills and experience
Reuben has extensive financial services experience, 
particularly within investment banking and wealth 
management, through his current positions and 
former senior roles with Goldman Sachs, where 
he led their European Financial Institutions Group.
He is also able to provide the Board with insight 
and experience of the US political and regulatory 
environment, gained from his Government roles in the 
US, including as chairman of the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission and as an under Secretary of State.
Key current appointments
Vice Chairman, Rockefeller Capital Management; 
Director, Financial Services Volunteer Corps; Director, 
CQS Management Limited
Committees
Nominations, Risk

Matthew Lester
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 September 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Matthew contributes to the Board strong financial 
management and regulatory experience, having 
held a number of senior finance roles across a range 
of business sectors, including financial services. 
Most recently he was chief financial officer of 
Royal Mail Group.
His financial expertise attained from past positions 
and current non-executive roles enables Matthew 
to analyse effectively complex reporting and risk 
management processes and appropriately challenge 
executive management.
Key current appointments
Non-executive director, Man Group plc; 
Non-executive director, Capita plc
Committees
Audit, Risk

Dambisa Moyo
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 May 2010

Relevant skills and experience
Dambisa is an international economist and 
commentator on the global economy, with a PhD 
in economics. She brings to Barclays a background 
in financial services and a wide knowledge and 
understanding of global economic, political and 
social issues.
Her past non-executive directorships with Barrick 
Gold Corporation, SABMiller plc and Seagate 
Technology plc and current positions highlight her 
strong board-level experience of companies with 
complex global operations.
Key current appointments
Non-executive director, Chevron Corporation; 
Non-executive director, 3M Company; Member 
of Investment Committee, Oxford University 
Endowment Fund
Committees
Remuneration, Reputation

Diane Schueneman
Non-executive

Appointed: 
25 June 2015

Relevant skills and experience
Diane is a member of the Board and also Chair 
of Barclays Services Limited and a member of the 
Board of Barclays US LLC. 
She brings to Barclays a wealth of experience 
in managing global, cross-discipline business 
operations, client services and technology in the 
financial services industry. Diane had an extensive 
career at Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior 
roles, including responsibility for banking, brokerage 
services and technology provided to the company's 
retail and middle market clients.
Key current appointments
None
Committees
Audit, Risk

Mike Turner CBE
Non-executive

Appointed: 
1 January 2018

Relevant skills and experience
Mike has considerable business and board-level 
experience gained from his lengthy career with 
BAE Systems PLC where he was CEO as well as 
his non-executive positions. He has a strong 
commercial background and experience in 
strategy and operational performance culture. 
He brings significant leadership and strategic 
oversight experience to the Board, particularly 
from his current roles and previous chairmanship 
of GKN Plc.
Key current appointments
Chairman, Babcock International Group PLC; 
Member, UK Government's Apprenticeship 
Ambassadors Network
Committees
Reputation

Company Secretary

Stephen Shapiro

Appointed: 
1 November 2017

Relevant skills and experience
Stephen was appointed Company Secretary in 
November 2017 having previously served as the 
Group Company Secretary and Deputy General 
Counsel of SABMiller plc. Prior to this, he practised 
law as a partner in a law firm in South Africa, 
and subsequently in corporate law and M&A at 
Hogan Lovells in the UK. Stephen has extensive 
experience in corporate governance, legal, regulatory 
and compliance matters. Stephen serves on the 
Executive Committee of the GC100, the association 
of General Counsel and Company Secretaries 
working in FTSE 100 companies, and has previously 
served as Chairman of the ICC UK's Committee on 
Anti-Corruption.

Who we are – Board of Directors
Governance: Directors' report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 53

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Paul Compton 
Group Chief 
Operating Officer

Bob Hoyt 
Group General 
Counsel

Laura Padovani 
Group Chief 
Compliance Officer

Tristram Roberts 
Group Human 
Resources Director

Group Executive Committee meetings are 
also attended on a regular basis by the 
Chief Internal Auditor, the Company Secretary, 
and an ex officio member drawn from 
senior management.

Tim Throsby 
Chief Executive 
Officer, Barclays 
International

Ashok Vaswani
Chief Executive 
Officer, Barclays UK

C S Venkatakrishnan
Group Chief 
Risk Officer

Who we are – Group Executive Committee
Governance: Directors' report

Group Executive Committee
 Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance 
Director, who are members of the Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by Jes Staley, 
can be found on page 51.

<Page End><Page Start>
54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board report

Governance: Directors' report

The Barclays Board
The Barclays Group is organised into two 
clearly defined business divisions – Barclays 
UK and Barclays International. These are 
housed in two banking subsidiaries – Barclays 
UK sits within Barclays Bank UK PLC, and 
Barclays International sits within Barclays 
Bank PLC – which operate alongside Barclays 
Services Limited but, in accordance with the 
requirements of ring-fencing legislation, 
independently from one another. Barclays 
Services Limited drives efficiencies in delivering 
operational and technology services across 
the Barclays Group. Barclays PLC is the parent 
company of the Barclays Group.

Each of the three subsidiaries has its own 
separately constituted board, comprising 
of both executive and non-executive directors, 
with distinct commercial, legal and regulatory 
responsibilities which reflect the different 
natures of the respective entities. Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC also 
have their own board committees.

The Barclays PLC Board (the Board) is 
responsible for the overall leadership of the 
Barclays Group, including establishing its 
purpose, values and strategy and satisfying 
itself as to the alignment of Barclays' culture 
with its purpose, values and strategy. It is 
also responsible for ensuring that management 
maintains a sound system of audit, risk 
management, compliance and internal control. 
A sound system of internal control provides 
assurance of effective and efficient operations, 
internal financial controls and compliance 
with law and regulation. In meeting this 
responsibility, the Board considers what is 
appropriate for the Barclays Group's business 
and reputation, the materiality of financial and 
other risks and the relevant costs and benefits 
of implementing controls. See page 86 for 
further details on those systems of controls.

In collaboration with the respective boards 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC, the Board has developed a governance 
framework that seeks to provide the 
strong foundation needed for the effective 
management of the restructured Barclays 
Group and thus generate long-term 
sustainable returns for shareholders. 

As stated above, the Board is the ultimate 
decision-making body for all board-level 
issues and matters that are significant to 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC because of their potential 
strategic, financial, regulatory or reputational 
implications or because of their potential 
consequences for the Barclays Group as 
a whole. 

As noted in the Chairman's introduction, 
internal governance processes have been 
developed to ensure the effective operation 
of the individual boards and board committees 
of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC and Barclays Bank PLC respectively, in 
recognition of the fact that this is key to the 
development and execution of the Barclays 
Group's strategy. The Schedule of Matters 
Reserved details the key decisions in respect 
of which the Board has control. The Schedule 
of Matters Reserved to the Board is reviewed 
regularly to ensure that it remains relevant, 
and was recently updated to reflect our 
new corporate structure, evolving corporate 
governance requirements, and industry 
best practice. A summary of the matters 
reserved to the Board can be found at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance.

The Board Committees
The Board is empowered through its Articles 
of Association to delegate all or any of its 
powers, authorities and discretions to any 
committee or committees as it thinks fit. 
The principal Board Committees are the Board 
Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee, 
the Board Reputation Committee, the Board 
Nominations Committee and the Board 
Remuneration Committee.

The Board Committees are responsible for 
overseeing matters at the Barclays Group level 
and their respective authorities extend to all 
matters relating to their responsibilities for the 
Barclays Group, save to the extent that the 
matters relate solely to either Barclays Bank 
UK PLC or Barclays Bank PLC, and/or their 
respective subsidiaries, and fall solely within 
the remit of the terms of reference of the 
respective board committees of either Barclays 
Bank UK PLC or Barclays Bank PLC in which 
case the matter shall be dealt with by such 
committee, within the parameters set by 
the relevant Board Committee. The Board 
Committees report to the Board.

The Board has defined the roles and objectives 
of each of the Board Committees, and provided 
specific levels of discretion within which they 
can operate. In line with all Board Committees 
in the Barclays Group, the Board Committees 
must act in accordance with the remit of 
their delegated authorities and their terms 
of reference. The terms of reference are 
reviewed annually, and were recently updated 
to reflect our new corporate structure, evolving 
corporate governance requirements, and 
industry best practice. A copy of each Board 
Committee's terms of reference can be found 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance.

You can read more about what the Board 
and each of the Board Committees did during 
2018 on the following pages.

Barclays  
PLC

Barclays  
Services Limited

Barclays  
Execution Services

Barclays  
Bank PLC

Barclays  
International

Barclays  
Bank UK PLC

Barclays  
UK

Subsidiary companies

Business divisions

Parent company

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 55

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

The Board's key areas of focus
During 2018, the Board focused on the 
matters outlined in the table below, in line 
with the strategy of the Barclays Group and 
the eight Principal Risks identified by our 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework.

Board allocation of time* (%)

1
4

2
3

2018 2017
1 Strategy formulation and 

implementation monitoring 44 47
2 Finance  

(including capital and liquidity) 12 15
3 Governance and risk 

(including regulatory issues) 42 35
4 Other  

(including remuneration) 2 3

* Based on scheduled Board meetings

Board Governance Framework

See page 60 for further 
information

See page 125 for further 
information

See page 68 for further 
information

See page 73 for further 
information

See page 77 for further 
information

Barclays PLC

Responsible for the overall leadership of the Barclays Group

Audit Committee

■■ Reviews accounting 
policies and financial 
reports

■■ Monitors the internal 
control environment

■■ Considers the adequacy 
and scope of the internal 
and external audit

■■ Reviews and monitors 
the Barclays Group's 
whistleblowing policies

Remuneration Committee

■■ Sets principles and 
parameters of 
remuneration for Barclays

■■ Considers and approves 
remuneration for executive 
Directors and senior 
executives

■■ Oversees employee share 
schemes 

Nominations Committee

■■ Reviews the composition 
of the Board

■■ Recommends the 
appointment of new 
Directors

■■ Considers succession 
plans for the Chairman 
and Group Chief 
Executive

■■ Oversees the annual 
Board effectiveness 
review 

Reputation Committee

■■ Oversees reporting 
on Barclays' culture 

■■ Considers Barclays' 
conduct and reputational 
risk issues and exposures

■■ Reviews and approves 
Barclays' approach to 
citizenship, environmental 
and social matters

■■ Oversees Barclays' 
approach to customer 
and regulatory matters

Risk Committee

■■ Monitors and recommends 
financial and operational 
risk appetite

■■ Monitors the financial 
and operational risk 
profile

■■ Reviews limits for types of 
financial and operational 
risk 

Strategy formulation and monitoring
Debated and provided input to management on the execution of the overall strategy of the Barclays Group, and reflected on that strategy with 
longer-term views on what could be done to build on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, enhance financial resilience 
and deliver consistent and stronger returns through the business cycle. The topics considered by the Board included:
■■ a continued focus on ways to enhance the Barclays Group's returns
■■ potential growth opportunities for the Barclays Group in delivering sustainable enhanced returns through the cycle
■■ constraints and risks to strategy execution, including economic assumptions, expected regulatory requirements on capital and solvency ratios, 

investor expectations, potential impacts for clients and customers, and the various approaches to the distribution of capital
■■ the allocation of capital 
■■ areas of shareholder focus in relation to the overall strategy of the Barclays Group
■■ strategic approach to costs optimisation, including the use of Barclays Execution Services to deliver shared services to the Barclays Group. 

Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against the 2018 execution priorities and capital targets 
of the Barclays Group, received insights on stakeholder, employee and cultural matters (including results from employee opinion surveys), and 
updates on items of focus for the Barclays Group Executive Committee.
Monitored the progress of the execution and implementation of the structural reform programme and approved matters in connection therewith 
including capital reductions.
Assessed and debated the potential implications of the UK's preparations to leave the EU following the EU Referendum result and received updates 
on the preparations of the Barclays Group, including the expansion of our Irish legal entity, Barclays Bank Ireland, as well as updates from the 
Chair of the Risk Committee.
Received ‘Deep Dive' presentations from management on key areas of the Barclays Group's business and lessons learned from specific events.

Finance (including capital and liquidity)
Debated, assessed and approved the Barclays Group's Medium Term Plan for 2018-2020.
Regularly assessed financial performance of the Barclays Group and its main businesses through reports from the Group Finance Director.
Reviewed and approved Barclays' financial results prior to publication, including approving full year and half year dividends.
Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays' strategic and financial results announcements, with insights provided by the Head of Investor 
Relations and brokers.
Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the Barclays Group's Medium Term Plan 2019-2021 and subsequently approved 
the final plan.

<Page End><Page Start>
56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board report

Governance: Directors' report

Governance and risk (including regulatory issues)
Debated and approved the 2018 risk appetite for the Barclays Group.
Discussed and received regular updates on stress testing.
Regularly assessed Barclays' overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from the Chief Risk Officer and the Chair of the 
Risk Committee.
Discussed and received regular updates directly from the Chief Controls Officer on the internal controls and framework of the Barclays Group 
and monitored progress of:
■■ the Barclays Internal Control Enhancement Plan (the programme for remediation of identified risk and control issues)
■■ the Risk and Control Self Assessment process
■■ improvements to the operating model of the Controls Office.

Received reports on Barclays' operational and technology capability, including in relation to the recruitment of a Chief Security Officer, the launch 
of the Joint Operations Centre, and cyber security.
Approved the Barclays Group's 2018 Recovery Plan and considered the US Resolution Plan. Both plans considered Barclays' Preferred Resolution 
Strategy, which is developed with the Bank of England and involves a single-point of entry resolution with bail-in at the Barclays PLC level.
Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal and regulatory risks and issues facing the Barclays Group – refer to 
Note 27 in the financial statements.
Met with representatives of Barclays' UK and US regulators to enable the Board to hear first-hand about regulatory expectations and their specific 
views on Barclays.
Received and considered regular updates on communications from Barclays' UK and US regulators.
Considered matters relating to Board succession, including the recruitment and appointment of a new Chairman and approved appointments to 
the Board and Board Committees.
Received and considered regular updates from the Chairs of the Board's principal Board Committees on the matters discussed at Board Committee 
meetings. You can read more about what each of the Board Committees did during 2018 on the following pages.
Received regular updates from the Chairs of Barclays Bank UK, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Services Limited.
Approved:
■■ the new corporate governance framework for the Barclays Group, which reflects the corporate structure post-structural reform and recent 

corporate governance reforms
■■ the operating parameters within which Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and their respective groups, should run themselves in 

compliance with relevant law and regulation.
Considered and discussed other corporate governance matters and regulatory matters, including the Senior Managers and Certification Regime 
and the extension thereof.
Engaged with stakeholders through a number of mechanisms, including:
■■ meeting with institutional investors at seminars and conferences across many geographic locations, and meeting with private shareholders 

at the AGM
■■ receiving updates on shareholder views through regular updates, with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations and brokers
■■ monitoring the impact of our behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues and society with support from the Reputation 

Committee, which tracks key indicators across the areas of culture, citizenship, conduct, and customer and client satisfaction,
and used the insights gained to inform the Board's decision-making.
Monitored the impact of our behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues and society.
Received regular reports on the alignment of Barclays' culture with its purpose, values and strategy as well as qualitative and quantitative feedback 
on matters of interest to colleagues.
Received updates from the Reputation Committee on the publication of policy statements on Coal, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, 
as well as Barclays Energy and Climate Change Statement, and discussed feedback received thereon.
Received training on whistleblowing and the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
Considered the results of the 2017 Board effectiveness review and action plan and considered the process for and findings of the 2018 Board 
effectiveness review. More information on the 2018 Board effectiveness review can be found on page 50.

Other (including remuneration)
Considered progress on Barclays' talent and succession planning (and hosted receptions for key talent within the Barclays Group), and monitored 
the overall diversity of the leadership pipeline to ensure that the broadest spectrum of leaders are being attracted to the Barclays Group.
Received updates on the Bank's diversity and inclusion initiatives, including from the Chair of the Nominations Committee, and debated the key 
business drivers for promoting diversity of gender, social and ethnic background, cognitive and personal strengths when making appointments 
to the Board and succession planning.
Considered and approved the 2018 incentive funding pools for the Barclays Group and allocation among each business and function. Please refer 
to the Remuneration report on pages 99 to for further details.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 57

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Governance in action –  
Cyber security and operational resilience
The way in which businesses operate 
and consumers manage their lives is 
fundamentally changing. At Barclays, our 
customers undertake over six million digital 
banking interactions every day through 
online and mobile services. The impact of 
digitisation on the financial services sector 
has generally been a positive one, providing 
consumers with the ability to engage 
through their preferred channel, at a time 
of their choosing, without having to visit 
a physical branch. However, digitisation 
has also resulted in instances of service 
disruption. In a recent study on cyber and 
technology resilience, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) noted that cyberattacks 
accounted for 18% of the operational 
incidents reported to the FCA between 
October 2017 and September 2018, and 
that technology outages in the financial 
services sector are becoming more frequent.

The Board considers that cyber security 
and operational resilience are critical issues 
– disruptions that affect customers' access 
to their accounts, and their money, impact 
confidence in the wider banking sector. 
The Barclays Group is focused on reducing 
the volume of operational incidents, and 
is seeking to do this through:
■■ Continued investment in our IT 

infrastructure. We operate a multi-channel 
strategy, with the channels supported by 
different technology systems to ensure 
that we can continue to service our 
customers in the event that one or more 
channels encounters difficulties. There 
are also, often, non-digital alternatives 
available for use as back-up.

■■ The provision of around-the-clock 
resilience and security. Nearly a quarter 
of the Barclays Group's global workforce 
of 85,000 is dedicated to security and 
technology. In order to enable our 
customers to transact 24/7, we seek to 
ensure around-the-clock resilience and 
security. We have created a global network 
of Joint Operation Centres with state-of-
the-art technology and highly trained 
staff to enable ‘always on' monitoring, 
tracking, and handling of cyber threats 
and technology issues.

■■ The strengthening of controls and 
governance relating to technology. 
We have agreed standards and processes 
in place to manage the risks of operating 
and maintaining a complex technology 
estate across the Barclays Group. We have 
also reviewed our most critical banking 
services, and the internal processes 
that support them, in order to ensure 
that appropriate levels of resilience are 
designed and implemented for each 
service, depending on its criticality, and 
to identify and remove any single points 
of failure. A senior Accountable Executive 
has been assigned to each critical banking 
service, with responsibility for ensuring 
the resilience of that service and 
undertaking regular testing.

We also monitor both internal and external 
operational incidents as part of our formal 
‘Lessons Learned' and ‘Post Incident Review' 
processes, as well as regularly using scenario 
planning to further improve our activities 
and plans in the event of an incident.

We believe that our approach is proving 
successful – between 2016 and 2017, 
operational incidents caused by technology 
reduced by 15%; between 2017 and 2018, 
operational incidents caused by technology 
reduced by 13%. Nevertheless, incidents 
do still occur and, when they do, we focus 
on minimising the impact on customers. 
This includes providing clear and timely 
updates through different channels in order 
to signpost customers to those services 
that are unaffected.

Whilst the Board is actively engaged in 
monitoring and overseeing cyber security 
and operational resilience, the control 
aspects of these issues are the responsibility 
of the Audit Committee and the operational 
risk issues are the responsibility of the Risk 
Committee. You can read more about the 
work of the Audit Committee and the Risk 
Committee on pages 58 to 67 and pages 77 
to 82 respectively.

<Page End><Page Start>
58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Audit Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
2018 was another year of challenge and 
change for Barclays. One of the Committee's 
most significant activities was overseeing 
Barclays' transition from IAS 39 to the IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments accounting standard, 
in particular the introduction of a forward-
looking expected credit loss (ECL) model, 
which is designed to recognise losses earlier. 
Having overseen the Barclays Group's 
preparation for the implementation of IFRS 9 
over the last few years, my Committee 
colleagues and I were well placed to monitor 
the impact of the new standard and ensure 
that such impact was clearly communicated 
to shareholders. To this end, and in line with 
the Committee's responsibility for ensuring 
the integrity of Barclays' published financial 
information by debating and challenging the 
critical judgements and estimates made by 
management, we provided input on material 
disclosures relating to IFRS 9. Please refer to 
the report on the following pages for details 
of all of the material matters considered by 
the Committee in the last year.

On 1 April 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC was 
established thereby completing structural 
reform. Having previously agreed the 
allocation of responsibilities, the Committee 
worked closely with the audit committees 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC and with management to embed the 
necessary information flows and reporting 
in order to ensure that all three of the audit 
committees can discharge their responsibilities 
with the minimum amount of duplication. 
More generally, the intention of the new 
structure is that all of the Barclays Group 
entities operate alongside one another, but 
in accordance with the requirements of 
ring-fencing legislation. With this in mind, 
I held regular meetings with the chairs of the 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 
audit committees and recently attended 
meetings of each of their committees. In turn, 
the chairs of those entities attended at least 
one Committee meeting during 2018. I also 
met frequently with members of senior 
management, including the Group Finance 
Director and Chief Internal Auditor, and 

continued my engagement with Barclays' 
regulators both in the UK and the US. 
I reported regularly on the activities of the 
Committee to the Board of Barclays PLC.

Ensuring continued focus on the 
strengthening of Barclays' control 
environment remained a priority for the 
Committee in 2018. I held regular meetings 
with the Chief Internal Auditor and members 
of her senior management team to ensure 
that I was aware of current work programmes 
and any emerging issues. I also agreed the 
Chief Internal Auditor's objectives, and the 
outcomes of her performance assessment 
and remuneration. Following the success 
of previous networking events with Barclays 
Internal Audit (BIA), Committee members 
were once again given the opportunity 
to meet with senior members of the BIA 
management team on a less formal basis.

Having taken over the co-ordination of the 
Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) 
process in 2017, the Chief Controls Office has 
developed a more detailed self-assessment 
process which has assisted the business in 
proactively identifying controls which require 
remediation. We received regular updates 
from the Chief Controls Office on those 
controls and other issues. Following the 
stand-up of the Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC audit committees, 
the focus of these updates was on issues 
of significance to the Barclays Group, most 
of which related to services supplied by 
Barclays Execution Services. 

The Committee continued to engage with 
senior management regarding areas of control 
weaknesses, and received presentations from 
a number of different areas of the organisation 
on the actions taken to address unsatisfactory 
audit reports.

In assessing control issues for disclosure in 
the Annual Report, the Committee applied 
similar concepts to those used for assessing 
internal financial controls for the purposes of 
Sarbanes-Oxley. The conclusion we reached 
is that there are no control issues that are 
considered to be a material weakness and 
which therefore merit specific disclosure.

I am proud to be Barclays' Whistleblowers' 
Champion. As Champion, I have specific 
responsibility for overseeing the integrity, 
independence and effectiveness of the 
Barclays Group's whistleblowing arrangements, 
including the policies and procedures on 
protecting against victimisation. In this 
capacity, I am pleased to report that the 
recommendations arising from the independent 
review of the whistleblowing programme that 
was commissioned by the Board in 2017 have 
been implemented in full. This includes the 
standing-up of a centralised team to review 
and assess all concerns raised and, 
as necessary, direct those concerns to an 
appropriate team for investigation. The 
FCA and the PRA concluded their regulatory 
processes in relation to the investigation of 
certain matters involving our whistleblowing 
programme, and Barclays Bank PLC reached 
a settlement with the New York State 
Department of Financial Services in respect 
of its investigation into the same matters. 
Certain information relating to the 
whistleblowing programme will be provided 
to the FCA and the PRA for the years 
2018-2020, and to the New York State 
Department of Financial Services for the years 
2017-2020. 

Committee performance
The performance of the Committee was 
assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, 
an independent, external corporate 
governance consultancy as part of the 
annual effectiveness review of the Board 
of Barclays PLC. The results show that the 
Committee is operating effectively, and the 
Board takes a high level of assurance from 
the technical competence and diligence 
of the Committee's work. It is considered 
well-constituted, with the right balance 
of skills and experience. Last year's review 
commented on the need to manage a 
demanding agenda efficiently so that time 
is allocated to the most significant items 
for discussion. 

Having overseen preparations for the implementation 
of IFRS 9, the Committee was well placed to monitor the 
impact of the new standard and ensure that such impact 
was clearly communicated to shareholders.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 59

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

The Committee sought to address this by 
embedding the progress made by the Audit, 
Reputation and Risk Committees in 2017 to 
avoid duplication where there is an overlap 
of responsibilities, and focusing on time 
management in meetings such that discussions, 
and presenters, are limited to the allocated 
time. The results of this year's review note 
that there has been encouraging progress in 
relation to focus on key issues, but that there 
is still work to be done. The Committee 
will continue to focus on this point in the 
forthcoming year.

You can read more about the outcomes of 
the review of Board, Board Committee and 
individual Director effectiveness on page 71.

Looking ahead
In 2019, the Committee will continue to 
monitor the impact of IFRS 9, and the new 
IFRS 16 accounting standard pursuant to 
which companies will be required to bring 
most leases on-balance sheet from 1 January 
2019. We will also further develop our 
relationship with the audit committees of 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to 
ensure that all three audit committees operate 
effectively and in a streamlined manner.

Finally, Sally Clark, our current Chief Internal 
Auditor, has decided to retire. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank her both 
personally and on behalf of the Committee for 
her support and dedication in the role over the 
last five years. The Committee will be involved 
in the process to appoint a successor, and 
will be seeking to ensure that we appoint 
a candidate who continues with her work 
establishing BIA as a world-leading function.

Mike Ashley
Chair, Board Audit Committee
20 February 2019

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors, 
with membership designed to provide the 
breadth of financial expertise and commercial 
acumen it needs to fulfil its responsibilities. 
Its members as a whole have recent and 
relevant experience of the banking and 
financial services sector, in addition to general 
management and commercial experience, 
and are financially literate. In particular, 
Mike Ashley, who is the designated financial 
expert on the Committee for the purposes 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is a former 
audit partner who, during his executive career, 
acted as lead engagement partner on the 
audits of a number of large financial services 
groups. Matthew Lester held a number of 
senior finance roles across a range of business 
sectors, including financial services, during 
his executive career. You can find more details 
of the experience of Committee members 
in their biographies on pages 51 and 52.

During 2018, the Committee met nine times 
and the chart above shows how it allocated 
its time. Attendance by members at Committee 
meetings is shown below. Committee meetings 
were attended by representatives from 
management, including the Group Chief 

Executive, Group Finance Director, 
Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Controls Officer, 
Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, 
Group General Counsel and Head of 
Compliance, as well as representatives from 
the businesses and other functions. The lead 
audit partner of KPMG (the Barclays Group's 
external auditor) attended all Committee 
meetings in 2018 – from January to July this 
was Guy Bainbridge; from August onwards 
this was Michelle Hinchliffe. The Committee 
held a number of separate private sessions 
with each of the Chief Internal Auditor and 
the lead audit partner, which were not 
attended by management.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Mike Ashley 9/9
Tim Breedon 9/9
Crawford Gillies 9/9
Matthew Lester 9/9
Diane Schueneman 9/9

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ assessing the integrity of the Barclays Group's 

financial reporting and satisfying itself that 
any significant financial judgements made 
by management are sound

■■ evaluating the effectiveness of the Barclays 
Group's internal controls, including internal 
financial controls

■■ scrutinising the activities and performance 
of the internal and external auditors, including 
monitoring their independence and objectivity

■■ overseeing the relationship with the 
Barclays Group's external auditor

■■ reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of the Barclays Group's whistleblowing 
policies and procedures

■■ overseeing significant legal and regulatory 
investigations, including the proposed 
litigation statement for inclusion in the 
statutory accounts.

The Committee's terms of reference are available 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the 
Committee during 2018, and in evaluating 
the Annual Report and financial statements, 
are described on the following pages.

Financial statement reporting issues
The Committee's main responsibility in 
relation to Barclays' financial reporting is 
to review with both management and the 
external auditor the appropriateness of 
Barclays' financial statements, including 
quarterly results announcements, half-year 

Committee allocation of time (%)

1
2

3

4

5

6

2018 2017
1 Control issues 8 11
2 Business control 

environment 12 15
3 Financial results 

(including IFRS 9) 46* 33
4 Internal audit matters 14† 25
5 External audit matters 13 8
6 Other (including litigation, 

governance and 
compliance) 7 8

* The increased amount of time allocated to financial 
results in 2018 reflects the role of the Committee 
in monitoring the impact of the IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments accounting standard and ensuring 
that such impact was clearly communicated 
to shareholders, including providing input on 
material disclosures.

† The reduced amount of time allocated to internal 
audit matters in 2018 is reflective of the progress 
made by Barclays Internal Audit in addressing 
the Matters Requiring Attention identified by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the issues 
arising from the PRA's horizontal review of the 
function, and the recommendations made by 
Deloitte following its independent review of 
Barclays Internal Audit in 2017.

<Page End><Page Start>
60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

and annual financial statements, and 
supporting analyst presentations, with its 
primary focus being on:
■■ assessing whether the Annual Report, 

taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess Barclays' position and performance, 
business model and strategy

■■ material areas where significant judgements 
have been made, along with any significant 
assumptions or estimates, or where 
significant issues have been discussed 
with or challenged by the external auditor

■■ the quality and acceptability of accounting 
policies and practices

■■ any correspondence from financial 
reporting regulators in relation to Barclays' 
financial reporting.

Accounting policies and practices
The Committee discussed reports from 
management in relation to the identification 
of critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty, significant 
accounting policies and the proposed 
disclosure of these in the 2018 Annual Report. 

Following discussions with both management 
and the external auditor, the Committee 
approved the critical accounting judgements, 
significant accounting policies and disclosures, 
which are set out in Note 1, 

‘Significant accounting policies', to the 
consolidated financial statements.

Two new significant accounting standards 
became effective from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers. Further 
information regarding these changes can be 
found in Note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements. During 2018, the Committee was 
regularly updated on Barclays' implementation 
of IFRS 9, in particular in relation to the new 
ECL model, which represented a fundamental 
change in approach to impairment

The Committee discussed with management 
the key technical decisions and interpretations 
required, and Barclays' approach to these.

Financial reporting regulators and Barclays
The Committee from time to time considers 
comment letters and papers from external 
bodies including the SEC and the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC). In that regard, the 
Committee considered the following:
■■ the FRC's Annual Review of Corporate 

Governance and Reporting, which 
summarised key characteristics of good 
corporate reporting from the 2017/18 
reporting year

■■ the FRC's Year-End Advice Letter to Audit 
Committee Chairs and Finance Directors, 
which highlighted key developments for 
the 2018/19 reporting year

■■ the FRC's IFRS 9 Thematic Review, which 
looked at disclosures in 2018 interim 
accounts relating to the implementation 
of IFRS 9.

The Committee sought to ensure that Barclays 
took due account of the matters raised in 
the letters and papers described above in its 
external reporting, and sought to enhance and 
clarify relevant disclosures, as appropriate.

From time to time, Barclays receives comment 
letters from the SEC in relation to its review 
of the Annual Report and other publicly filed 
financial statements. Such comment letters 
and Barclays' responses are made publicly 
available by the SEC on its website, sec.gov, 
once it has closed each such review. Barclays 
did not receive any such comment letters from 
the SEC during 2018.

Significant judgements and estimates
The significant judgements and estimates 
and actions taken by the Committee in 
relation to the 2018 Annual Report and 
financial statements are outlined below. 
The significant judgements and estimates are 
broadly comparable in nature to prior years. 
Each of these matters was discussed with the 
external auditor during the year and, where 
appropriate, has been addressed in the 
Auditor's Report on page 248 to 255.

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Fair, balanced and 
understandable 
reporting
(including country-by- 
country reporting and 
Pillar 3 reporting)

Barclays is required to ensure 
that its external reporting is fair, 
balanced and understandable.

The Committee undertakes an 
assessment on behalf of the Board 
in order to provide the Board with 
assurance that it can make the 
statement required by The UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2016.

■■ Assessed through discussion 
with and challenge of management, 
including the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director, whether 
disclosures in the Annual Report and 
other financial reports were fair, 
balanced and understandable.

■■ Evaluated reports from Barclays PLC's 
Disclosure Committee on its assessment 
of the content, accuracy and tone of 
the disclosures.

■■ Established through reports from 
management that there were no 
indications of fraud relating to financial 
reporting matters.

■■ Evaluated the outputs of Barclays' 
internal control assessments and 
Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal 
control process.

■■ Assessed disclosure controls 
and procedures.

■■ Confirmed that management had 
reported on and evidenced the basis 
on which representations to the 
external auditors were made.

Having evaluated all of the available 
information and the assurances 
provided by management, the 
Committee concluded that the 
processes underlying the preparation 
of Barclays' published financial 
statements, including the 2018 Annual 
Report and financial statements, 
were appropriate in ensuring that 
those statements were fair, balanced 
and understandable.

In assessing Barclays' financial results 
statements over the course of 2018, 
the Committee specifically addressed 
and provided input to management 
on the disclosure and presentation of:
■■ the impact of IFRS 9 on, among other 

things, Barclays' CET1 ratio, credit 
risk disclosures in the Pillar 3 Report 
and shareholders' equity

■■ the Group Finance Director's 
presentations to analysts

■■ the level of segmental reporting.

The Committee recommended to the 
Board that the 2018 Annual Report and 
financial statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable.

What we did in 2018
Board Audit Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 61

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Impairment
(refer to Note 7 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays has implemented IFRS 9 
by developing models to calculate 
expected credit losses in a range 
of economic scenarios. The key 
areas of judgement include setting 
modelling assumptions, developing 
methodologies for the weighting 
of economic scenarios, establishing 
criteria to determine significant 
deterioration in credit quality and 
the application of management 
adjustments to the model output.

■■ Assessed impairment experience against 
forecast, and considered whether 
impairment provisions were appropriate.

■■ Evaluated the impact of IFRS 9 
on impairment.

■■ Monitored the Barclays Group's ECLs, 
model changes, scenario updates, 
post-model adjustments, and volatility.

■■ Monitored SOX compliance in relation 
to IFRS 9 controls and, specifically, 
the ECL calculation.

The Committee received a number 
of deep dive presentations from the 
Finance and Credit officers responsible 
for the IFRS 9 implementation.

The Committee considered in detail 
the key IFRS 9 assumptions relating 
to staging criteria and the weighting 
of economic scenarios.

The Committee reviewed model 
adjustments and scenario updates 
made by management to ensure that 
impairment allowances were set at 
appropriate and adequate levels. 
In particular, the Committee reviewed 
the basis of the adjustment of £150m 
made to reflect current economic 
uncertainty in the UK.

The Committee agreed that the 
provision levels for impairment 
were appropriate.

In light of the need for additional 
disclosures to be made in relation 
to IFRS 9, the Committee reviewed 
management's ‘dry run' of the 
year end IFRS 9 disclosures which 
focused on those disclosures that were 
either new or significantly impacted. 
The Committee also reviewed the 
final IFRS 9 disclosures which, whilst 
understandably still evolving, the 
Committee believed gave a good 
explanation of the impacts.

Conduct provisions
(refer to Note 25 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays makes certain 
assumptions and estimates, 
analysis of which underpins 
provisions made for the costs 
of customer redress, such as 
for Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI).

■■ Regularly analysed the judgements and 
estimates made with regard to Barclays' 
provisioning for PPI claims, taking into 
account forecasts and assumptions 
made for PPI complaints and actual 
claims experience for Barclays and 
the industry as a whole, including 
the volume of invalid PPI claims.

■■ Debated the impact on the future range 
of provisions arising from (i) the August 
2019 time-bar on claims, (ii) the PPI 
marketing campaigns, and (iii) the fee 
cap on the submission of PPI complaints 
by claims management companies.

■■ Evaluated the adequacy of the PPI 
provision, considering whether the 
total provision is within the modelled 
range of future outcomes, and whether 
the external auditor agreed with 
management's analysis and approach.

■■ Monitored the position on provisions 
for alternative PPI (card protection and 
payment break plan insurance) and 
considered whether further provisions 
were required.

Throughout the year, the Committee 
and management continued to monitor 
closely any changes in customer or 
claims management companies' 
behaviour in light of the FCA time-bar 
and marketing campaign, and the 
ongoing impact of the Plevin case. 
Having reviewed the key factors 
impacting the PPI provision, the PPI 
provision was increased in Q1 2018. 
Following this increase, the Committee 
agreed with management's assessment 
that the current provision of £888m 
was appropriate. The Committee noted 
that this estimate remains subject to 
significant uncertainty, in particular 
regarding the level of valid customer 
claims that may be received in the 
period to August 2019. In this context, 
the Committee was satisfied that 
sensitivities to the key variables were 
appropriately disclosed.

<Page End><Page Start>
62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Audit Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Legal, competition 
and regulatory 
provisions
(refer to Notes 25 
and 27 to the financial 
statements)

Although a number of significant 
legacy litigation issues were 
resolved during 2018, Barclays 
is engaged in various legal, 
competition and regulatory 
matters. The extent of the impact 
on Barclays of these matters 
cannot always be predicted, 
but matters can give rise to 
provisioning for contingent and 
other liabilities depending on the 
relevant facts and circumstances. 
The level of provisioning is subject 
to management judgement on 
the basis of legal advice and is, 
therefore, an area of focus for 
the Committee.

■■ Evaluated advice on the status 
of current legal, competition and 
regulatory matters.

■■ Assessed management's judgements 
and estimates of the levels of provisions 
to be taken and the adequacy of 
those provisions, based on available 
information and evidence.

■■ Considered the adequacy of disclosure, 
recognising that any decision to set 
provisions involves significant judgement.

The Committee discussed provisions 
and utilisation. Having reviewed the 
information available to determine 
what was both probable and could 
be reliably estimated, the Committee 
agreed that the level of provision 
at the year end was appropriate. 
The Committee also considered that 
the disclosures made provided the 
appropriate information for investors 
regarding the legal, competition and 
regulatory matters being addressed 
by the Barclays Group.

Long-term viability
(refer to the Viability 
statement on pages 42 
to 43)

The Directors are required to 
make a statement in the Annual 
Report as to the long-term viability 
of Barclays. The Committee 
provides advice to the Board 
on the form and content of 
the statement, including the 
underlying assumptions.

■■ Evaluated at year end a report from 
management setting out the view 
of Barclays' long-term viability based 
on Barclays' MTP. The report covered 
forecasts for capital, liquidity and 
leverage, and included forecast 
performance against regulatory targets, 
outcomes of the stress test of the 
MTP and forecast capital and liquidity 
performance against stress hurdle rates, 
funding and liquidity forecasts as well 
as an assessment of global risk themes 
and the Barclays Group's risk profile.

■■ Considered the viability statement 
in conjunction with Barclays' risk 
statements and strategy/business 
model disclosures.

■■ Addressed feedback from investors, 
the FRC and other stakeholders on 
viability statements in general.

The Committee agreed that the 
appropriate time frame for the viability 
statement continued to be three years.

Taking into account the assessment 
by the Risk Committee of stress testing 
results and risk appetite, the Committee 
agreed to recommend the viability 
statement to the Board for approval.

Valuations
(refer to Notes 13 
to 17 to the financial 
statements)

Barclays exercises judgement in 
the valuation and disclosure of 
financial instruments, derivative 
assets and certain portfolios, 
particularly where quoted market 
prices are not available.

■■ Evaluated reports from the Group 
Financial Controller.

■■ Monitored the valuation methods 
applied by management to significant 
valuation items, including the Barclays 
Group's Education, Social, Housing and 
Local Authority portfolio and a valuation 
disparity with a third party in respect of 
a specific long-dated derivative portfolio.

The Committee noted that there 
were no new significant valuation 
judgements during the year.

Tax
(refer to Note 9 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays is subject to taxation in 
a number of jurisdictions globally 
and makes judgements with 
regard to provisioning for tax 
at risk, and on the recognition 
and measurement of deferred 
tax assets.

■■ Evaluated the appropriateness of tax 
risk provisions to cover existing tax risk.

■■ Confirmed that the forecasts and 
assumptions supporting the recognition 
and valuation of deferred tax assets 
was in line with Barclays' Medium Term 
Plan (MTP).

■■ Monitored the impact to Barclays of the 
US framework for tax legislation, which 
was enacted on 22 December 2017, 
including the Base Erosion Anti-abuse 
Tax (BEAT).

The Committee reviewed Barclays' 
global tax risk and associated 
provisions for the full year and noted 
that gross tax risk increased slightly, 
and the level of tax provisions 
remained appropriate. 

The Committee was pleased to note 
that the Barclays Group was not 
affected by BEAT in respect of 2018.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 63

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Other significant matters
Apart from financial reporting matters, the 
Committee has responsibility for oversight of 
the effectiveness of Barclays' internal controls, 
the performance and effectiveness of BIA and 

the performance, objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor. 
The most significant matters considered 
during 2018 are described in the table below.

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Internal control
Read more about 
Barclays' internal 
control and risk 
management 
processes on page 86.

The effectiveness of the overall 
control environment, including 
the status of any material control 
issues and the progress of specific 
remediation plans.

■■ Evaluated and tracked the status of the 
most material control issues identified 
by management through regular reports 
from the Chief Controls Officer, assessed 
against the Controls Maturity Model.

■■ Evaluated the status of specific material 
control issues (being data management, 
compliance, cyber, credit risk, model risk, 
resilience, technology and transaction 
operations) and tracked the progress of 
the associated remediation plans against 
agreed time frames.

■■ Considered the second line of defence 
role in the oversight of operational risk 
controls, including financial controls 
over operational risk.

■■ Evaluated reports on the internal control 
environment from the external auditor.

■■ Evaluated quarterly updates on lessons 
learned from Critical risk events, which 
were tracked by the Chief Controls Office.

The Committee welcomed the ongoing 
transition to a ‘business as usual' 
environment following the significant 
volume of work that had been 
undertaken as part of the Barclays 
Internal Controls Enhancement 
Programme, supported by the 
RCSA process.

The Committee continued to use the 
output from the RCSA process in its 
review of the control environment, 
and welcomed the introduction of 
more granularity, which has provided 
greater visibility on controls requiring 
remediation and associated risks. 
The Committee, together with the 
Risk Committee, received a deep dive 
presentation on this enhanced process 
in the course of the year. The Committee 
also received deep dives on control hot 
spots, including operational resilience 
and third party fraud. 

The Committee monitored the 
implementation of the Operational 
Risk and Control System (ORAC) 
and tracked the transition of all issue 
reporting into that system. In addition, 
the Committee continued to provide 
feedback on the reporting of material 
control issues.

Business control 
environment

The effectiveness of the control 
environment in each individual 
business, including the status 
of any material control issues 
and the progress of specific 
remediation plans.

■■ Assessed reports on individual 
businesses and functions on their 
control environment, questioned the 
heads of the relevant businesses or 
functions on control concerns and 
scrutinised any identified control 
failures and closely monitored the 
status of remediation plans or work 
streams to enhance the respective 
control environments.

■■ Received updates directly from senior 
management, and scrutinised action 
plans, in relation to remediation plans 
following unsatisfactory audit findings.

■■ Received updates from management 
on the Designated Market Activities 
remediation plan, which addresses 
Barclays' regulatory commitments to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
(the Fed) and other US and UK regulators 
in relation to sales and trading practices 
across the FX, Rates and other Markets 
related business areas.

The Committee received regular deep 
dive control environment presentations. 
These provided further detail of 
management's assessment of the 
business unit control environment 
and key areas of focus, including key 
control hot spots for the businesses. 
The Committee also received a number 
of presentations from business heads 
following unsatisfactory audit reports. 
The Committee challenged the business 
regarding their role in identifying 
the control issues, and requested 
confirmation from management 
regarding the remediation programme 
as well as the time frames and 
accountability for delivery of that plan.

The effectiveness of the control 
environment in the Chief 
Operating Office (COO) and the 
status and remediation of any 
material control issues.

■■ Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO 
control environment through deep dives 
and management updates, taking the 
opportunity to directly challenge and 
question functional leaders, including 
the Chief Operating Officer, on the 
progress of remediation plans.

The Committee was pleased to 
note continuing progress to address 
control issues in accordance with 
the agreed timescales.

<Page End><Page Start>
64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2018
Board Audit Committee report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Raising concerns The adequacy of the Barclays 
Group's arrangements to allow 
employees to raise concerns 
in confidence and anonymously 
without fear of retaliation, 
and the outcomes of any 
substantiated cases.

■■ Monitored enhancements to the 
whistleblowing programme following 
the independent review that was 
commissioned by the Board in 2017.

■■ Reviewed the examples of best 
practice in the FCA's Review of Firms' 
Whistleblowing Arrangements.

■■ Monitored whistleblowing metrics, 
including case load and case ageing.

■■ Monitored instances of retaliation 
reports, and whether any instances 
had been substantiated.

■■ Received a presentation from BIA 
following its audit of the Investigations 
and Whistleblowing team.

As Whistleblowing Champion, the 
Chair of the Committee presented his 
annual report on whistleblowing 
matters to the Board.

The Committee continued to encourage 
and support the provision of training 
to colleagues and managers on 
whistleblowing issues, and received 
their own whistleblowing training. 
The Committee was pleased to note 
that the volume of cases remains 
proportionate to Barclays' size 
and footprint.

The Committee was also pleased to 
note that the recommendations arising 
from the independent review of the 
whistleblowing programme had 
been implemented in full, and had 
been subject to validation by the 
Global Compliance Assurance team. 
Following the enhancements made, 
the Committee considered that the 
whistleblowing programme generally 
met with best practice as identified 
by the FCA's Review.

The Barclays PLC Environmental Social 
Governance Report 2018 includes 
further details regarding the Barclays 
Group's whistleblowing procedures and 
controls.

Internal audit The performance of BIA and 
delivery of the internal audit plan, 
including scope of work performed, 
the level of resources, and the 
methodology and coverage of 
the internal audit plan.

■■ Scrutinised and agreed internal audit 
plans, methodology and deliverables 
for 2018.

■■ Monitored BIA's progress on delivery 
against the Matters Requiring Attention 
identified by the Fed, the issues arising 
from the PRA's horizontal review of the 
function, and BIA's response to feedback 
received as part of the independent 
external review commissioned by 
the Committee.

■■ Monitored delivery of the agreed audit 
plans, including assessing internal audit 
resources and hiring levels, and any 
impacts on the audit plan, and reviewing 
the reasons for the postponement 
of audits in greater depth.

■■ Debated audit risk appetite and 
issue validation.

■■ Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory 
audits, and monitored related 
remediation plans.

■■ Approved the appointment of the Chief 
Internal Auditor for Barclays Bank UK 
PLC and Barclays Bank PLC respectively.

■■ Discussed BIA's assessment of the 
management control approach and 
control environment in Barclays Bank 
UK PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and 
the functions.

■■ Evaluated the outcomes from BIA's 
annual self-assessment.

The Committee received semi-annual 
thematic control reports from BIA 
and a quarterly operational report 
during 2018.

The Committee observed that the 
issues arising from unsatisfactory 
audits indicated that there was still 
work to do in embedding the required 
level of control consciousness across 
the Barclays Group and ensuring that 
control exceptions were highlighted 
clearly in management reporting.

The Committee welcomed the progress 
made by BIA in addressing the Matters 
Requiring Attention identified by the 
Fed, the issues arising from the PRA's 
horizontal review of the function, and 
the recommendations made as part 
of the independent external review.

The Committee confirmed that it 
was satisfied with the outcome of the 
self-assessment of BIA performance, 
which evidenced that the function 
generally conforms to the standards 
set by the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
It further confirmed that it felt able to 
rely on the work of BIA in discharging 
its own responsibilities.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 65

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

External audit The work and performance 
of KPMG.

■■ Met with key members of the KPMG 
audit team to discuss the 2018 audit 
plan and agree areas of focus.

■■ Assessed regular reports from KPMG 
on the progress of the 2018 audit and 
any material accounting and control 
issues identified.

■■ Discussed KPMG's feedback on 
Barclays' critical accounting estimates 
and judgements.

■■ Discussed KPMG's draft report on 
certain control areas and the control 
environment ahead of the 2018 year end.

■■ Discussed the approach to KPMG's 
annual report to the PRA which will 
be issued following completion of the 
2018 audit.

■■ Considered the draft SOX control report 
and the draft audit opinion.

The Committee approved the audit 
plan and the main areas of focus. 
Separate audit partners were assigned 
to lead the audits of Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC and 
the scope of the audit was, therefore, 
necessarily revised to reflect a legal 
entity view.

Read more about the Committee's 
role in assessing the performance, 
effectiveness and independence of the 
external auditor below. Further details 
of the Committee's consideration of 
audit quality can be found in the 
‘Governance in action' section of this 
report on page 67.

In addition, the Committee also covered the 
following matters:
■■ tracked the progress of specific work 

being done to enhance Barclays' financial 
crime controls, including the function's 
investigation capabilities, particularly 
in relation to prevention and detection 
activities. The Committee also assessed the 
Group Money Laundering Officer's annual 
report, which was also presented to the 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC audit committees

■■ assessed the status of the programme 
in place to ensure Barclays' compliance 
with client assets (CASS) regulatory 
requirements, including approving the 
annual client assets audit report and 
discussing the potential impact of structural 
reform on client assets

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment 
of the Committee's performance and any 
areas of Committee performance that 
needed to be enhanced

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

External auditor
Following an external audit tender in 2015, 
KPMG was appointed as the Barclays Group's 
statutory auditor. Michelle Hinchliffe of KPMG 
is the Senior Statutory Auditor.

Assessing external auditor effectiveness, 
objectivity and independence and  
non-audit services
The Committee is responsible for assessing 
the effectiveness, objectivity and independence 
of KPMG. This responsibility was discharged 
throughout the year at formal Committee 
meetings, during private meetings with KPMG, 
and through discussions with key executive 
stakeholders. In addition to the matters noted 
above, the Committee also:
■■ approved the terms of the audit 

engagement letter and associated fees, 
on behalf of the Board

■■ discussed and agreed revisions to the 
Barclays Group policy on the Provision 
of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor 
and regularly analysed reports from 
management on the non-audit services 
provided to Barclays

■■ evaluated and approved revisions to the 
Barclays Group policy on Employment of 
Employees or Workers from the Statutory 
Auditor and ensured compliance with 
the policy by regularly assessing reports 
from management detailing any 
appointments made

■■ was briefed by KPMG on critical accounting 
judgements and estimates and internal 
controls over financial reporting

■■ assessed any potential threats to 
independence that were self-identified 
and reported by KPMG

■■ met with KPMG to discuss the issues 
impacting KPMG as a firm, some of which 
were the subject of significant adverse 
press coverage

■■ reviewed the annual report on KPMG 
issued by the FRC's Audit Quality Review 
(AQR) team

■■ received and discussed with the AQR team 
the findings from their review of KPMG's 
2017 audit of the Barclays Group

■■ received a report from KPMG regarding 
the draft findings from the review by the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (PCAOB) of KPMG's 2017 audit 
of the Barclays Group.

The AQR team reviewed the main judgemental 
areas of KPMG's audit: the fair value of 
financial instruments (including trading, 
designated at fair value and derivative financial 
instruments); the impairment of loans and 
advances to customers; litigation provisions; 
conduct provisions; and the IFRS 9 transition 
disclosures. They identified improvements 
that, in their view, were required in these areas 
and in their discussion with the Committee 
highlighted, in particular, their findings as 
related to KPMG's audit of the fair value of 

derivatives. The Committee discussed both 
the overall assessment of the review and the 
areas for improvement in detail with KPMG, 
and noted the actions they had taken as 
regards the 2018 audit; the Committee also 
challenged KPMG as to whether any of the 
findings might be relevant to areas which had 
not been subject to the AQR team's review. 
In addition, the Committee received a detailed 
paper from KPMG outlining the work they 
performed on the fair value of the derivatives 
portfolio in 2017. The Committee believes 
that KPMG has taken appropriate action as 
regards its 2018 audit. Furthermore, having 
understood the nature of the AQR team's 
findings and KPMG's work, particularly as 
regards to the fair value of the derivatives 
portfolio, the Committee does not believe the 
findings affected the overall audit conclusions 
reached by KPMG in the 2017 audit.

The Committee received from KPMG a note 
of the draft PCAOB findings and discussed 
with KPMG both the findings and the 
proposed improvements to the audit that 
KPMG had implemented for the 2018 audit. 
The Committee noted that whilst the scope 
for the two reviews was not the same, the 
PCAOB did also cover the fair value of financial 
instruments and the impairment of loans and 
advances to customers. As regards the 
financial statement audit, the PCAOB raised 
no comments on the impairment of loans 
and only one comment on the valuation 
of a minor part of the trading portfolio. 
As regards the audit of financial controls 
required by Sarbanes-Oxley, the PCAOB noted 
that, in their view, KPMG had not performed 
adequate assessments of certain management 
review controls relating to loan impairment 
and valuation models. In this respect, both 
management and KPMG have been working 
to ensure that such review controls are 
documented at a sufficiently granular level 
to meet audit and regulatory expectations. 
Again, having considered in detail the 
comments raised and KPMG's response, 
the Committee believes that KPMG has 
taken appropriate action as regards the 

<Page End><Page Start>
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Audit Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

2018 audit and that the nature of the 
comments received from the PCAOB do not 
impact on the 2017 audit conclusions in 
respect of either the audit of the financial 
statements or internal financial controls.

KPMG's performance, independence and 
objectivity during 2018 were also formally 
assessed at the beginning of 2019 by way of 
a questionnaire completed by key stakeholders 
across the Barclays Group, including the chairs 
of the Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays 
Bank PLC audit committees. The questionnaire 
was designed to evaluate KPMG's audit 
process and addressed matters such as the 
quality of planning and communication, 
technical knowledge, the level of scrutiny and 
challenge applied and KPMG's understanding 
of the business. In addition, as in the prior 
year, KPMG nominated a senior partner of the 
audit team reporting to the Senior Statutory 
Auditor to have specific responsibility for 
ensuring audit quality. The Committee 
therefore met with the partner concerned 
without the Senior Statutory Auditor to 
receive a report on his assessment of audit 
quality, bearing in mind the comments 
received from the AQR team and PCAOB 
and the responses thereto.

Taking into account the results of all of 
the above, the Committee considered that 
KPMG maintained their independence and 
objectivity, and that the audit process 
was effective.

Non-audit services
In order to safeguard the Auditor's 
independence and objectivity, the Barclays 
Group has in place a policy setting out the 
circumstances in which the Auditor may be 
engaged to provide services other than those 
covered by the Barclays Group audit. The 
Barclays Group Policy on the Provision of 
Services by the Group Statutory Auditor 
(the Policy) applies to all Barclays' subsidiaries 
and other material entities over which Barclays 
has significant influence. The core principle 
of the Policy is that non-audit services (other 
than those legally required to be carried out by 
the Barclays Group's Auditor) should only be 
performed by the Auditor in certain, controlled 
circumstances. The Policy sets out those types 
of services that are strictly prohibited and 
those that are allowable in principle. Any 
service types that do not fall within either 
list are considered by the Committee Chair 
on a case by case basis, supported by a risk 
assessment provided by management.

The Policy is reviewed on an annual basis 
to ensure that it is fit for purpose, and that it 
reflects applicable rules and guidelines. This 
year, following the completion of structural 
reform, the following material amendments 
were made to the Policy:

■■ references to ABSA/Barclays Africa 
Group Limited (BAGL), and its auditors 
Ernst & Young, were removed to reflect 
the full deconsolidation of BAGL from 
a regulatory perspective

■■ the Policy was updated to reflect an FRC 
staff guidance note entitled The Auditor's 
Provision of Restructuring Services to Public 
Interest Entity Participants in Bank Lending 
or Bond Funded Syndicates

■■ the £25,000 tax planning and tax advice 
services threshold was removed from 
allowable non-audit services, which means 
that all such services now require approval. 
Tax advice to expatriate employees and 
training on the practice of tax law were 
added to the prohibited non-audit 
services listing.

The Policy was further updated at the 
beginning of 2019 to align it with KPMG's 
update to its own internal policy on non-
audit services for FTSE 350 companies which 
provides that the Auditor should only be 
engaged to supply non-audit services where 
those services are ‘closely related' to the audit.

The above changes were approved at a 
Barclays Group level by the Committee. This 
is in accordance with European Union law 
and FRC guidance, pursuant to which audit 
committees of Public Interest Entities (such 
as Barclays PLC) are required to approve 
non-audit services provided by their auditors 
to such entities, and subsidiary Public Interest 
Entities in the UK – such as Barclays Bank UK 
PLC and Barclays Bank PLC – can rely on the 
approval of non-audit services by the ultimate 
parent's audit committee. It should be noted 
that audit services, and the fee cap, will be 
monitored by the relevant audit committee, 
as appropriate.

Under the Policy the Committee has pre-
approved all allowable services for which 
fees are less than £100,000. However, all 
proposed work, regardless of the fees, must 
be sponsored by a senior executive and 
recorded on a centralised online system, with 
a detailed explanation of the clear commercial 
benefit arising from engaging the Auditor over 
other potential service providers. The audit 
firm engagement partner must also confirm 
that the engagement has been approved in 
accordance with the Auditor's own internal 
ethical standards and does not pose any 
threat to the Auditor's independence or 
objectivity. All requests to engage the Auditor 
are assessed by independent management 
before work can commence. Requests for 
allowable service types in respect of which the 
fees are expected to meet or exceed the above 
threshold must be approved by the Chair of 
the Committee before work is permitted to 
begin. Services where the fees are expected 
to be £250,000 or higher must be approved 
by the Committee as a whole. All expenses 
and disbursements must be included in the 
fees calculation.

During 2018, with the exception of one matter, 
all engagements where expected fees met or 
exceeded the above threshold were evaluated 
by either the Committee Chair or the 
Committee as a whole who, before confirming 
any approval, assured themselves that there 
was justifiable reason for engaging the Auditor 
and that its independence and objectivity 
would not be threatened. No requests to use 
KPMG were declined by the Committee in 
2018 (2017: none). On a quarterly basis, the 
Committee scrutinised details of individually 
approved and pre-approved services 
undertaken by KPMG in order to satisfy itself 
that they posed no risk to independence, 
either in isolation or on an aggregated basis.

Two minor breaches of the Policy arose during 
the reporting period. In both cases, KPMG 
confirmed to the Committee that they did not 
consider their position of independence had 
been compromised. The Committee agreed 
with this assessment and action was taken 
to address the breaches and to ensure they 
do not recur. 

For the purposes of the Policy, the Committee 
has determined that any pre-approved 
service of a value of under £50,000 is to 
be regarded as not material in terms of its 
impact on Barclays' financial statements and 
has required the Group Financial Controller 
to specifically review and confirm to the 
Committee that any pre-approved service 
with a value of £50,000-£100,000 may be 
regarded as such. The Committee undertook 
a review of pre-approved services at its 
meeting in December 2018 and satisfied itself 
that such pre-approved services were not 
material in the context of their impact on 
the financial statements.

The fees payable to KPMG for the year ended 
31 December 2018 amounted to £51m, of 
which £11m (2017: £10m) was payable in 
respect of non-audit services. A breakdown 
of the fees payable to the Auditor for statutory 
audit and non-audit work can be found in 
Note 40. Of the £11m of non-audit services 
provided by KPMG during 2018, the significant 
categories of engagement, i.e. services 
where the fees amounted to more than 
£500,000, included:
■■ audit-related services: services in 

connection with CASS audits (while the 
CASS audit fell within the Auditor's scope 
of services, the fees for such services did 
not form part of the global fee arrangements 
and therefore required separate Committee 
approval pursuant to the Policy)

■■ other attest and assurance services: 
ongoing attestation and assurance 
services for treasury and capital markets 
transactions to meet regulatory 
requirements, including regular reporting 
obligations and verification reports.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 67

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

As noted above, the Provision of Services 
by the Group Statutory Auditor Policy was 
updated to clarify that the Barclays Group 
should only engage the Auditor to supply 
non-audit services where those services are 
‘closely related' to the audit. Having reviewed 
the non-audit services that have been 
provided by KPMG since their appointment 
as the Barclays Group's external auditor 
with effect from the financial year beginning 
1 January 2017, we believe that this change 
will have limited impact on the Barclays 
Group. For example, all of the non-audit 
services provided by KPMG in 2018 fall within 
the new policy and would, therefore, have 
been permissible. Of the £10m of non-audit 
services provided by KPMG during 2017, KPMG 
would have been prohibited from providing 
services amounting to less than £300,000 
pursuant to the new policy.

The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014
An external audit tender was conducted in 
2015 and the decision was made to appoint 
KPMG as Barclays' external auditor with 
effect from the 2017 financial year, with PwC 
resigning as the Barclays Group's external 
auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit.

Barclays is in compliance with the requirements 
of The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, 
which relates to the frequency and governance 
of tenders for the appointment of the external 
auditor and the setting of a policy on the 
provision of non-audit services.

Provided that KPMG continue to maintain 
their independence and objectivity, and the 
Committee remains satisfied with their 
performance, the Barclays Group has no 
intention of appointing an alternative external 
auditor before the end of the current required 
period of 10 years.

Governance in action –  
Audit quality
Although BIA, as the Barclays Group's 
internal auditor, and KPMG, as the Barclays 
Group's external auditor, have primary 
responsibility for the quality of their 
respective audits, the Committee plays 
an important role in promoting and 
supporting audit quality through its various 
responsibilities (as detailed in its terms 
of reference).

The Committee gains insight into the 
activities of BIA, and its effectiveness, in 
three ways. Firstly, BIA maintains a quality 
assurance and improvement programme that 
covers all aspects of BIA's activity across the 
Barclays Group and which is overseen by the 
Committee. In the event that any issues are 
identified in relation to BIA's work for Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and/or Barclays Bank PLC, such 
issues will be reported to the relevant audit 
committee. Secondly, the independent 
Internal Audit Quality Assurance team 
samples all of BIA's work on an annual basis 
and presents its findings to the Committee. 
Thirdly, the Committee commissions an 
external assessment of BIA at least once 
every five years with the last such review 
being undertaken during the second half 
of 2017. To the extent that the Committee 
is made aware of any development areas 
or issues, it endeavours to monitor the 
delivery of any remedial actions.

The Committee oversees the Group's 
relationship with its external auditor and is 
responsible for reviewing the performance, 
independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor in order to decide whether to 
recommend to the Barclays PLC Board 
a proposal for shareholders to reappoint 
the current external auditor. As part of that 
review, which is organised at a Barclays 
Group level, the views of the Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC audit 
committees are sought. In addition, this year, 
the Committee met with the nominated 
senior partner on the audit team who has 

responsibility for ensuring audit quality 
– without the Senior Statutory Auditor – in 
order to receive a report on his assessment of 
audit quality. KPMG provided the Committee 
with a report regarding the draft findings 
from the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board's review of KPMG's 2017 
audit of Barclays, and the findings of the 
FRC's Audit Quality Review (AQR) team 
review of KPMG's 2017 audit of Barclays were 
also shared with the Committee. The AQR 
team monitors the quality of the audit work 
of statutory auditors and audit firms in the 
UK that audit certain entities, including 
banks such as Barclays. They conduct 
reviews of individual audits, and focus on 
the appropriateness of key audit judgements 
made in reaching the audit opinion and the 
sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit 
evidence obtained; reviews of firm-wide 
procedures are wide-ranging in nature and 
include an assessment of how the culture 
within firms impacts on audit quality.

The Committee believes that high quality 
audit is the primary mechanism for 
providing stakeholders with assurance that 
the financial statements give a true and 
fair view of their Company and, therefore, 
promotes market confidence in the 
Company's financial reports. For these 
reasons, the Committee continues to be 
an advocate of high-quality audit and keeps 
abreast of the debate as to whether audits, 
and auditors, are fit for purpose by regularly 
reviewing industry guidance from, for 
example, the FRC and the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions. 
The Committee provided information 
in response to the request from the 
Competition & Markets Authority for its 
review into competition in the UK audit 
market – which will examine three main 
areas: choice, resilience and incentives – 
and we look forward to reviewing the 
conclusions of that study.

<Page End><Page Start>
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Dear Fellow Shareholders
2018 saw the establishment of our new 
corporate structure, and the embedding of the 
newly constituted Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC boards comprising distinct 
combinations of executive and non-executive 
Directors. Throughout this period of change, 
the Committee continued to consider regularly 
the composition of, and succession plans for, 
the Barclays PLC Board in order to ensure the 
right balance of diversity, experience and skills 
to provide the strategic oversight needed to 
motivate colleagues and sustain our business 
over the long term. In this respect, we were 
pleased to appoint Mary Anne Citrino as 
a non-executive Director in July 2018, the 
Committee having followed its usual approach 
of engaging an executive search firm and 
conducting a rigorous search and selection 
process. You can find out more about Mary 
Anne's background, experience and skills 
in her biography on page 52. We also look 
forward to welcoming Nigel Higgins, my 
successor, as Chairman with effect from 
the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2019. 
Nigel's appointment marks the culmination 
of an intensive recruitment process led by 
a sub-committee of the Board chaired by our 
Senior Independent Director, Crawford Gillies, 
and is made with the full approval and support 
of the Nominations Committee. You can 
read more about Nigel's recruitment and 
appointment in the ‘Governance in action' 
section of the Board report on page 72.

On 19 March 2018, we announced various 
Board changes to reflect the post-ring-fencing 
structure:
■■ Sir Gerry Grimstone, who was Deputy 

Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
of Barclays PLC and Chair of the Barclays 
PLC Reputation Committee, moved instead 
to become Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC. 
He remains a non-executive Director of 
Barclays PLC

■■ Sir Ian Cheshire was appointed Chairman 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC. He remains 
a non-executive Director of Barclays PLC

■■ Crawford Gillies was appointed Senior 
Independent Director of Barclays PLC

■■ Mary Francis was appointed Chair of 
the Barclays PLC Reputation Committee.

Continuing on the theme of succession, one 
of the Committee's key considerations is the 
processes for executive succession. During 
the year, we closely monitored the status and 
progress of the Barclays Talent and Succession 
strategy – which is aimed at attracting and 
retaining the best talent for the Barclays Group 
– and provided management with guidance 
and input on the strategy, as appropriate. 
The Committee also reviewed diversity in the 
talent pipeline and discussed ways in which 
high-performing individuals within senior 
management can be developed and nurtured 
in order to strengthen our succession pipeline.

The Committee was encouraged by Barclays' 
ever increasing commitment to diversity. 
The Committee, alongside the Board, is very 
alive to the benefits of diversity at Board level 
and in senior management, both in terms of 
gender, ethnicity and more broadly, in order 
to avoid ‘group think' and to ensure that the 
Board and the senior management team more 
closely reflect the diversity of the communities 
that they serve. In light of the Hampton 
Alexander and Parker Reviews, the Board 
Diversity Policy and Committee terms of 
reference were reviewed in order to ensure 
that both documents reflect our commitment 
to identifying, attracting, retaining and 
promoting the best talent, irrespective of the 
gender, ethnic background, religion or other 
defining characteristic of any candidate. The 
Board Diversity Policy and the Committee's 
terms of reference are available at  
home.barclays/corporategovernance.

In July 2016, Barclays was proud to become 
one of the first signatories to HM Treasury's 
Women in Finance Charter and remains 
committed to its pledge to improve gender 
diversity within the financial services sector. 
Work has continued towards our target of 
33% female representation on the Board by 
2020, not least, with the appointment of Mary 
Anne Citrino as a non-executive Director to 
the Board. The Committee also reviewed the 
Barclays Group's progress towards building 
a diverse and inclusive workforce, including 
reviewing updates on progress made across 
the Barclays Group against the five global 
pillars of Barclays Diversity and Inclusion 
strategy: gender, disability, LGBT, multicultural 
and multigenerational. Find out more about 
this in the People section on pages 93 to 98.

Committee performance
The performance of the Committee was 
assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, 
an independent, external corporate governance 
consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness 
review. The results confirm that the Committee 
is performing effectively, and that the role and 
responsibilities of the Committee are clear 
and well understood. Last year's review noted 
that the Committee needed to be mindful 
of ensuring that all non-executive Directors 
received the same flow of information in 
relation to decisions and discussions by the 
Committee. The Committee sought to address 
this through the delivery of updates by me, 
as Chair of the Nominations Committee, 
to the Board and outside of scheduled Board 
meetings, to the extent appropriate. This 
year's review notes that this is something 
that now needs to be further built upon. 
More information on the 2018 review of Board, 
Board Committee and individual Director 
effectiveness, and progress made against 
the findings of the 2017 review, can be found 
on page 71 and 72.

Looking ahead
While it is always a difficult choice to retire 
from a company as prestigious as Barclays, 
I am delighted that the Board has appointed 
Nigel Higgins to succeed me as Chairman. 
I have every confidence that Nigel will be 
a superb steward of both the Board and 
the bank as Barclays continues to progress 
following the substantial restructuring 
of the past few years.

John McFarlane
Chair, Board Nominations Committee
20 February 2019

What we did in 2018
Board Nominations Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

The Committee, alongside the Board, is very alive to the 
benefits of diversity in order to avoid ‘group think' and to 
ensure that the Board and senior management team more 
closely reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 69

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ceCommittee composition and meetings

The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. The 
members of the Committee are John McFarlane, 
Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Sir Ian Cheshire, 
Crawford Gillies, Sir Gerry Grimstone, and 
Reuben Jeffery III. You can find more details

of the experience of Committee members 
in their biographies on pages 51 and 52.

During 2018, the Committee met five times 
and the chart shows how it allocated its time. 
Attendance by members at Committee 
meetings is shown below. Committee meetings 
were attended for the relevant agenda items 
by the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
HR Director and the Group Head of Talent. 
The Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion 
also attended to the extent required.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
John McFarlane 5/5
Mike Ashley 5/5
Tim Breedon 5/5
Sir Ian Cheshire 5/5
Crawford Gillies 5/5
Sir Gerry Grimstone 5/5
Reuben Jeffery III 4/5

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ supporting and advising the Board in 

ensuring that it is comprised of individuals 
who are best able to discharge the duties 
and responsibilities of Directors

■■ evaluating the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, knowledge and diversity, 
on the Board

■■ ensuring that both appointments and 
succession plans are based on merit and 
objective criteria and, within this context, 
promoting diversity of gender, social 
and ethnic background, cognitive and 
personal strengths

■■ agreeing the annual Board performance 
evaluation process and considering 
its effectiveness

■■ ensuring that the Board has appropriate 
corporate governance standards and practices 
in place and revising these in order to ensure 
that they are consistent with best practice

■■ appointing Directors to, and removing 
Directors from, the boards of certain 
significant subsidiaries of the Barclays 
Group (with the recommendation of the 
relevant nominations committee, and the 
approval of the relevant board, where 
appropriate) and agreeing appropriate 
policies and processes to apply to the 
governance of those subsidiaries.

The Committee's terms of reference are available 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Board and 
Board Committee 
composition

The membership of the Board, 
and the current and future 
composition of the Board and 
its Committees.

■■ Reviewed the Board skills matrix 
and discussed the key skills and 
experience needed on the Board 
in the context of future strategic 
direction and structural reform, 
including any areas requiring 
strengthening from a skills and 
succession perspective.

■■ Identified the requirement 
for additional non-executive 
Directors with attributes including 
investment banking experience, 
retail banking experience and also 
digital/technology experience.

■■ Continued the search for an 
additional female non-executive 
Director with the relevant skill set.

■■ Played an important role in the 
search for the Chairman's 
successor.

■■ Reviewed the membership, size 
and composition of the Board 
Committees.

The Committee prepared an appropriate 
individual specification for an additional 
non-executive Director and shared it with 
executive search firm, Egon Zehnder. Egon 
Zehnder was advised that, subject always 
to applying rigorous, objective criteria, in 
the context of Barclays' strategic direction 
and the diversity of gender, social and 
ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal 
strengths, there was a preference for female 
candidates in light of the Board's diversity 
target of having 33% female representation 
on the Board by 2020. Egon Zehnder 
prepared a long-list of candidates (including 
references and CVs), which was reviewed 
by the Committee. A shortlist was prepared, 
and the candidates were interviewed. Mary 
Anne Citrino was identified as the preferred 
candidate, and was appointed to the Board 
on 25 July 2018.

The Committee continues its search for an 
additional female non-executive Director –  
preferably with banking experience and 
digital/technology experience – to further 
promote diversity of gender on the Board. 
Any appointment made will be based on merit 
and, as mentioned above, objective criteria.

Board composition 
of Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and Barclays 
Bank PLC in 
preparation for the 
legal entity stand 
up on 1 April 2018 
under the Structural 
Reform Programme

The composition of the Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC boards.

■■ Finalised the establishment 
of the boards of Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, 
and discussed the suitability of 
potential candidates identified 
to join those boards.

The Committee finalised the appointments 
to the boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC ahead of the 
execution of structural reform. This 
included the appointment of Chairs to these 
Boards in Sir Ian Cheshire and Sir Gerry 
Grimstone respectively, and taking the 
opportunity to appoint a dedicated Senior 
Independent Director within Barclays PLC 
in Crawford Gillies.

Committee allocation of time (%)

1

2

3

4

5

2018 2017
1 Corporate governance 

matters 13 8
2 Board and Board 

Committee composition 41 45
3 Succession planning 

and talent 27 33
4 Board effectiveness 11 11
5 Other 8 6

<Page End><Page Start>
70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Executive 
succession planning 
and talent 
management

Succession planning and 
talent management at the 
Barclays Group Executive 
Committee level.

■■ Reviewed the progress being 
made against Barclays' Talent 
and Succession strategy, including 
monitoring diversity within the 
talent pipeline.

■■ Discussed updates from the 
Group HR Director on the Barclays 
Group Executive Committee 
succession plans, including 
assessing emergency cover, the 
existing talent pipeline and any 
potential gaps.

■■ Considered individuals identified 
as potential Barclays Group 
Executive Committee successors 
and discussed next steps for 
their development.

■■ Assessed the succession plans 
for the most critical business 
unit and functional roles, and 
discussed how to develop the 
high-performing individuals 
identified.

The Committee reviewed the succession 
pipeline of the Barclays Group Executive 
Committee and their direct reports. The 
Committee was encouraged that all Barclays 
Group Executive Committee roles had at 
least one female successor, and that 33% 
of the total successors identified were 
female. Barclays is committed to achieving 
33% female representation among the 
Barclays Group Executive Committee and 
their direct reports by 2020, and as at 
year-end 2018 we are reporting 28% female 
representation among this population.

The Committee also discussed the 
continued use of ex officio posts to both 
the Barclays Group Executive Committee 
and business executive committees to give 
senior individuals more exposure to Barclays 
Group matters. This serves to not only 
broaden the scope of perspectives within 
the relevant committee but also to develop 
those individuals thus ensuring a healthy 
pool of potential candidates in the 
succession pipeline.

Diversity and 
Inclusion

Ensuring Barclays attracts 
and retains the best talent.

■■ Reviewed the Barclays Group's 
progress towards continuing 
to build a diverse and inclusive 
workforce.

The Committee received regular updates 
from the Global Head of Diversity and 
Inclusion on progress made across the firm 
against the five global pillars of Barclays 
Diversity and Inclusion strategy: Gender, 
Disability, LGBT, Multicultural and 
Multigenerational. Whilst acknowledging 
that there is more to do, the Committee 
was pleased with the progress that had 
been made. 

Further detail on this progress can be found 
above under ‘Board and Board Committee 
Composition' and in the People section on 
pages 93 to 98.

In addition, the Committee also covered the 
following matters:
■■ considered the results of, and agreed the 

action plan in respect of, the 2017 Board 
effectiveness review and the process for 
the 2018 Board and Board Committee 
effectiveness review

■■ monitored Directors' conflicts of interests, 
and Directors' induction and training

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment 
of the Committee's performance and any 
areas of Committee performance that 
needed to be enhanced

■■ reviewed the Committee's terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

Appointment and re-election of Directors
Board and Board Committee composition 
is a standing item for consideration at 
each Committee meeting. This includes 
the consideration of potential new non-
executive Director appointments, both in 
respect of planned succession for known 
retirements and as a result of the ongoing 
review of the skills and experience needed 
on the Board in order for it to continue to 
operate effectively.

The Committee frequently considers a skills 
matrix for the Board, which identifies the core 
competencies, skills, diversity and experience 
required for the Board to deliver its strategic 
aims and govern the Barclays Group effectively. 
Certain attributes identified in the skills matrix 
have a target weighting attached to them and 
these are regularly updated to reflect the 
needs of the Barclays Group. The Committee 
reviews the skills matrix when considering a 
potential new appointment to the Board, as 
well as reviewing the current and expected 
Board and Board Committee composition. 
This helps to determine a timeline for 
proposed appointments to the Board.

To the extent that the Nominations 
Committee identifies any gaps in the 
Board's profile – which may be a result 
of the forthcoming retirement of a Director, 
or in response to changing market needs – 
that information is used to inform the search 
for a new Director or Directors and the specific 
skills that are required will be identified, for 
example, an individual with international 
experience, or recent history serving on a 
particular board committee. The Charter of 
Expectations contains the key competencies, 
skills and experience expected of non- 
executive Directors, and these, in addition 

to other details such as expected time 
commitment, will be included in an individual 
specification. The Board and the Committee 
remain mindful of the targets set by the 
Hampton Alexander Review and the Parker 
Review respectively for FTSE 100 companies 
to have a minimum of 33% female 
representation on their board by 2020 and 
at least one ‘person of colour' on their board 
by 2021. The Committee considers CVs and 
references for potential candidates. Any 
candidates who are shortlisted will be 
interviewed by members of the Committee 
and, if applicable, key stakeholders and 
Barclays' regulators may be asked to provide 
feedback on the proposed appointment. 
The Board is updated on the progress of the 
recruitment and interview process, and any 
feedback from the interviews is provided 
to the Board alongside a recommendation 
for appointment.

During 2018, executive search firms Egon 
Zehnder and Spencer Stuart were instructed 
to assist with the search for a new female 
non-executive Director and new Chairman, 
respectively. Neither firm has any other 
connection to Barclays, other than to provide 
recruitment services. Open advertising for 
Board positions was not used this year, 

What we did in 2018
Board Nominations Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 71

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

as the Committee believes that targeted 
recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting 
for such positions. Both of the firms used for 
non-executive Director recruitment have 
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 
for Executive Search Firms, which includes 
measures designed to improve gender 
diversity on boards.

In 2018, Barclays announced the appointment 
of Mary Anne Citrino as a non-executive 
Director with effect from 25 July 2018. 
Mary Anne has extensive board-level 
experience and brings strong commercial 
acumen, together with investment banking 
experience (see page 52 for details of 
Mary Anne's background, experience and 
skills). In addition, Barclays announced the 
appointment of Nigel Higgins as John 
McFarlane's successor. For more details 
about Nigel's recruitment and appointment, 
please refer to the ‘Governance in action' 
section on page 72.

The Directors in office at the end of 2018 
were subject to an effectiveness review, as 
described below, which considered, among 
other things, what specific contribution they 
made to the Company. Based on the results 
of this review, the Board accepted the view 
of the Committee that each Director proposed 
for election or re-election continues to be 
effective, and contributes to the Company's 
long-term sustainable success. Having served 
on the Board for nine years, Reuben Jeffery III 
and Dambisa Moyo will both retire from the 
Board at this year's AGM and will not, 
therefore, be standing for re-election.

The Committee noted certain stakeholder 
concerns with respect to the following 
Directors' proposed re-election at last 
year's AGM:
■■ Sir Ian Cheshire's time commitments. 

Since Sir Ian's appointment in 2017, his 
time commitments have not been an issue. 
Sir Ian has been available as and when 
required by the Barclays Group, and he 
attended 100% of scheduled and additional 
Board meetings in 2018 (some of which 
were often called at short notice). He is 
an effective Barclays PLC non-executive 
Director. Subsequent to the year end, 
Sir Ian's role as Chairman of Debenhams Plc 
came to an end.

■■ Crawford Gillies and the appointment of 
our former auditor, PwC, as external adviser 
to the Remuneration Committee. Prior to 
the appointment of KPMG as the Barclays 
Group's external auditor on 31 March 2017 
(formally approved at the 2017 AGM in 
May 2017), PwC was the Barclays Group's 
external auditor. PwC was subsequently 
appointed as the independent adviser to the 
Remuneration Committee in October 2017, 
following a robust tender process. The PwC 
team providing advice to the Committee is 
different to the past audit team, and the 
Committee is satisfied that the advice 
provided is independent and objective.

■■ Mike Ashley's re-election as a non-executive 
Director following the appointment of 
KPMG as the Barclays Group's Auditor. 
The Committee confirms that although 
Mike was Chair of the Audit Committee at 
the relevant time, since he is a former KPMG 
partner he had no involvement in the audit 
tender process, the recommendation to the 
Board nor the decision to appoint KPMG as 
the Barclays Group's Auditor. The audit 
tender process was led by Tim Breedon.

■■ Tim Breedon has been a Director for over 
six years and, accordingly, his independence 
was subjected to a more rigorous review 
pursuant to the recommendations of 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016. 
Having considered Tim's interests outside 
of the Barclays Group and other relationships 
which could materially affect his ability 
to exercise independent judgement, the 
Committee concluded that there were no 
circumstances which would impact upon 
Tim's ability to act in the best interests 
of Barclays PLC. The Committee remains 
satisfied that the length of Tim's tenure 
has no impact on his level of independence, 
or the effectiveness of his contributions

In light of the recommendations set out 
in The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, 
Barclays PLC introduced a new procedure, 
with effect from 1 January 2019, requiring 
all Directors to request pre-clearance prior 
to taking on any additional commitments, 
including but not limited to directorships, and 
to indicate in the clearance request the likely 
time commitment involved. The Company 
Secretary maintains a record of each 
Director's commitments. This new procedure 
will enable the Board to track individual 
Directors' commitments in order to satisfy 
itself that no Director is over-committed. 
With regard to new Director appointments, 
all potential candidates are asked to disclose 
their significant commitments, and to give 
an indication of the time spent on those 
commitments. This information is taken into 
account by the Committee when considering 
proposed appointments on the basis that all 
Directors are expected to allocate sufficient 
time to their role on the Board in order to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively.

Review of Board, Board Committee and 
individual Director effectiveness
Process
In recent years, the Board has assessed 
its effectiveness, and that of the Board 
Committees and the individual Directors, 
annually in a process facilitated by an 
independent third party. This has been driven 
by the Board's belief that an effective Board 
is key to the delivery of a company's strategy, 
and that an objective, external perspective 
helps to identify what is working well and 
priorities for improvement, and promotes 
open discussion, resulting in a more effective 
Board. A full external review of the Barclays 
PLC Board, Board Committees and individual 
Directors was carried out during Q4 of 2018.

Independent Board Evaluation (IBE), 
which is an independent, external corporate 
governance consultancy with no other 

connection to the Barclays Group, was once 
again chosen to facilitate the effectiveness 
review on the basis that it offered not only 
the relevant skills but also prior knowledge 
of the Board and thus the ability to provide 
more insightful feedback. Consistent with 
previous years, IBE carried out interviews 
with the Directors to obtain feedback on the 
effectiveness of the Board throughout 2018, 
and also attended several Board and Board 
Committee meetings. Although not required 
by The Code, the boards of each of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have also 
elected to engage IBE to evaluate them, in 
order to enhance their effectiveness and 
ensure that they are operating optimally. This 
will, ultimately, provide the Barclays Group 
with a unique perspective as to the interaction 
of the boards and board committees of these 
companies, and the fitness for purpose of 
our new governance framework.

IBE issued their final report to the Board 
in December 2018 on the findings of the 
effectiveness review. In addition, the Chairman 
was provided with a report and feedback on 
the performance of each of the Directors, 
and the Senior Independent Director received 
a report on the Chairman.

Following consideration of the findings 
of the 2018 Board and Board Committee 
effectiveness reviews, the Directors remain 
satisfied that the Board and each of the Board 
Committees are operating effectively.

2017 findings of the Board effectiveness 
review and actions taken in 2018
Key findings of the 2017 Board effectiveness 
review, which was also facilitated by IBE, were 
that improving business performance would 
need to be a particular focus for 2018 and 
that structural reform – particularly the 
need for clear accountability and delineated 
responsibilities in the new structure between 
the individual boards and board committees 
– was regarded as a major challenge.

Following completion of structural reform, 
and the resolution of a number of significant 
legacy litigation and conduct matters, the 
executive team has been able to apply even 
greater focus to improving the performance 
of the business in the course of 2018 and has 
done so effectively. In relation to the second 
finding, and as noted earlier, a review of the 
governance processes across the Barclays 
Group was undertaken in order to ensure the 
effective operation of each of the boards and 
the respective board committees. In order 
to streamline governance processes, where 
appropriate, and clarify relationships between 
and among management and Barclays PLC, 
as well as the individual boards and their 
respective committees, the Board has agreed 
a new set of governance operating procedures 
and protocols which are detailed in a 
‘Corporate Governance Operating Manual' 
(the Manual). The Manual is intended to 
promote efficient, effective and cohesive 
governance across the respective boards and 
board committees, and has been approved 
and adopted and is in the process of being 
further embedded.

<Page End><Page Start>
72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Nominations Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

2018 Board effectiveness review
Feedback from the 2018 Board effectiveness 
review, facilitated by IBE, included that the 
execution of structural reform had gone well, 
financial results were encouraging and legacy 
issues were being resolved satisfactorily. 
Board members commented that the 
Board was well supported, and papers and 
presentations had improved, and Directors 
induction was strong. The review yielded 
a number of recommendations, a high level 
summary of which is set out below. The Board 
intends to take action to address each of these 
recommendations during the course of 2019.

Recommendations:
■■ The Board is large relative to peers and 

the whole Board should be engaged 
in considering how the Board might be 
reduced in size to a more manageable level 
whilst having careful regard to the Board 
skills matrix and relevant role profiles, 
to diversity and to succession planning.

■■ The Board should ensure that the 
Company's purpose and values are fully 
aligned with its culture and that all 
Directors lead by example and promote 
the desired culture.

■■ Enhanced training for Board members 
and senior executives on UK corporate 
governance, in particular for those with 
limited ‘UK plc' experience, would be 
helpful, as would refresher training sessions 
and more opportunities for site visits.

■■ To enable the Board to spend more time 
on longer-term and strategic issues, a short 
set of annual objectives setting out what 
the Board and Board Committees need to 
achieve would help to bring further focus 
on key issues in each forum, and will result 
in papers and meetings being more effective 
in terms of length and duration, respectively.

The 2018 Board effectiveness review 
considered diversity when assessing the 
effectiveness of the Board.

Board Committee effectiveness
The 2018 Board Committee effectiveness 
review was carried out by IBE. It was noted 
that this was the first review post-structural 
reform. The process involved both interviews 
with the Board Committee members and 
completion of a questionnaire, following 
which an effectiveness review report of 
the findings was provided to the Board 
Chairman and each Board Committee Chair. 
The conclusion of the Board Committee 
effectiveness review is that the Board 
Committees are working effectively. You can 
read more about the findings for each Board 
Committee within each Board Committee 
Chair's letter.

Governance in action –  
Recruiting and appointing a new Chairman
As a result of John McFarlane's wish to serve 
for a maximum of four years on the Barclays 
PLC Board, and his anticipated retirement 
in 2019, Barclays PLC needed to identify 
and recruit a new Chairman. Whilst the 
Nominations Committee would normally 
lead the process for the identification 
and recommendation of the Chairman's 
successor, given the importance of the role 
of Chairman, the Board was keen to involve 
all of the non-executive Directors in the 
recruitment process, rather than just those 
non-executive Directors who were members 
of the Nominations Committee. The Board 
asked the Senior Independent Director, 
Crawford Gillies, to convene a group of 
non-executive Directors – the Chairman's 
Appointment Oversight Committee 
(CAOC) – to lead the search process for 
the Chairman's successor, and to identify 
and recommend one or more candidates 
for consideration by the Chairman's 
Appointment Committee (CAC). The CAOC, 
led by Crawford, comprised Tim Breedon, 
Mary Francis, and Reuben Jeffery III. The 
CAC, also chaired by Crawford, comprised 
all of the non-executive Directors, apart 
from the Chairman himself. The CAC was 
responsible for considering the candidate or 
candidates nominated by the CAOC, and for 
nominating and recommending a candidate 
for consideration and approval in principle 
by the Board, subject both to the relevant 
candidate being approved by the PRA and 
the FCA, and terms of appointment being 
agreed between the candidate and 
Barclays PLC.

Process
It was agreed that the main candidate 
attributes included excellent chairing skills, 
sufficient financial services experience such 
that the individual could ‘hit the ground 
running', international exposure, experience 
of UK corporate governance, the ability 
to think strategically, and willingness to 
challenge management. With these skills 
and attributes in mind, Spencer Stuart, an 
external search consultant, was engaged 
to support the search and selection process.

Search
Spencer Stuart conducted a rigorous 
global search and identified 160 potential 
candidates. Over time, and having sought 
the views of the Directors – including 
John McFarlane – on the preferred type 
of candidate for the role, the long list was 

reduced. The Nominations Committee and 
the Board were both provided with regular 
updates on the status of the search.

Recruitment
Following the initial interview process, Nigel 
Higgins emerged as the preferred candidate 
on the basis of: his extensive experience in, 
and understanding of, banking and financial 
services, gained through a 36-year career at 
Rothschild; his strong track record in leading 
and chairing a range of organisations, and 
in acting as a strategic adviser to multiple 
major corporations and Governments 
internationally; and his wealth of experience 
in the operation of a financial services 
group, in building teams and culture on 
an international scale, and in growing 
businesses. He also demonstrated the strong 
personal qualities and the understanding 
of UK corporate governance required to be 
Chairman of Barclays PLC, including the 
stature, gravitas, resilience and willingness 
to challenge management and the rest of 
the Board, as and when required.

Having confirmed his interest in the role, 
Nigel undertook a series of further 
interviews and met with each of Crawford, 
Tim, Mary, Reuben and the Group Chief 
Executive. As part of the process, the 
Remuneration Committee met to consider 
and approve the financial terms of the 
letter of appointment to be entered into by 
Barclays PLC and Nigel. The Board held an 
additional meeting to specifically discuss 
the proposed appointment of Nigel as 
Chairman, and to allow Directors to share 
their feedback, and the feedback from 
external references, on him. The Board 
granted full authority to the Nominations 
Committee to finalise and agree Nigel's 
terms of appointment, and to undertake any 
further necessary actions required in respect 
of his appointment. Ultimately, Nigel's 
appointment was approved by the Board and 
announced on 2 November 2018. Nigel will 
join the Board as a non-executive Director 
of Barclays PLC on 1 March 2019 and 
subject to his appointment by shareholders, 
will succeed John McFarlane as Chairman 
with effect from the conclusion of this 
year's AGM.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 73

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Dear Fellow Shareholders
This is my first report to you as Chair of the 
Board Reputation Committee. I took over from 
Sir Gerry Grimstone on 1 April 2018, when he 
was appointed Chair of Barclays Bank PLC. 
I would like to thank Sir Gerry for all he did 
during his two years as Chair of the Committee. 
We welcomed Mike Turner to the Committee 
on 11 January 2018.

The Committee supports the Board in 
delivering its vision of Barclays' Purpose, 
Culture and Values, in reviewing the 
management of conduct and reputation risk, 
and in overseeing how Barclays meets its 
corporate and societal obligations. We do 
this through challenging the leaders of the 
business at all levels, by examining data and 
indicators, and through ‘deep dives' into 
specific areas of the bank. 

In 2018 the Committee encouraged 
management to ensure that its objectives for 
culture and standards of conduct were clearly 
understood and embedded in each part of the 
bank. We welcomed the launch of Barclays' 
new Purpose, which emphasises that our 
financial services play an essential role in 
enabling individuals and businesses to seize 
their opportunities. The Purpose is underpinned 
by the Values of the organisation: respect, 
integrity, service, excellence and stewardship. 

At each of our meetings we reviewed the 
Culture Dashboard, which provides data 
on how far the Values are embedded in the 
organisation's actual behaviours and actions. 
The results showed a sustained and positive 
trend. The annual survey by the Banking 
Standards Board (BSB) of the culture in 26 
member banks provides an important external 
lens to complement our internal data. At our 
December 2018 meeting we discussed the 
results of their latest survey with Dame Colette 
Bowe and Alison Cottrell, Chair and CEO of 
the BSB. We were encouraged to hear that 
colleagues described Barclays as innovative and 
were positive about our initiatives to strengthen 
well-being and gender diversity. The Committee 
agreed with the BSB's comments on areas of 
focus – which were similar for Barclays' peers 
– including the need for sensitive management 
of changes associated with new technology 
and innovation, reducing organisation 
bureaucracy and improving employee 
working environments. 

Oversight of conduct across the organisation 
is an essential part of our work. Barclays has 
a strong framework of conduct risk controls, 
focused on preventing harm to customers 
or markets, or any form of financial crime. 
The Committee received regular reports on 
compliance with this framework from the 
Chief Compliance Officer and the heads of 
the Financial Crime team, Human Resources, 
Risk and Internal Audit. We reviewed at 
each meeting data from the Conduct and 
Complaints Dashboards and undertook 
‘deep dives' into actual or potential problem 
areas. Despite disappointments, such as the 
problems arising with the introduction of 
our online investment service, Smart Investor, 
we welcomed the evidence of strengthening 
controls and positive trends in conduct 
breaches and disciplinary cases across 
the bank. 

Following the successful introduction of 
the dashboards over the past two years, 
the Committee agreed that they should be 
developed further so that cultural and conduct 
indicators are brought more clearly together, 
are well suited to each individual business 
entity, and are sufficiently forward looking. 
Barclays UK, Barclays International, and 
Barclays Execution Services have all been 
contributing to the review, and the revised 
Culture and Conduct dashboards will be an 
important underpin to our work in 2019. 

As our shareholders will know, Barclays has 
a strong and long-standing commitment 
to managing the environmental and social 
impacts of our business, recognising that 
our success is closely linked to that of the 
communities in which we live and work. 
A recurring topic in our discussions has been 
climate change and the challenges for 
business in balancing the need to maintain 
the supply of energy to support economic 
growth and prosperity while also meeting 
the goals of the Paris Accord. In 2018 we 
challenged and discussed with management 
Barclays' approach to financing businesses 
which operate in sectors that are sensitive 
because of their relative carbon intensity or 
local environmental impact. This has resulted 
in the publication of a policy statement on our 
approach to energy and climate change, as 
well as statements on World Heritage Sites 
and Ramsar Wetlands, all of which can be 
found on our website. During 2018 the 

Committee also encouraged management in 
its drive to identify and control reputational 
risk as clearly as it does conduct risk. We 
approved a new reputation risk framework 
in October 2018. 

With important changes in the structure of 
the Barclays Group in 2018, the Committee 
reviewed the governance framework for 
oversight of conduct and reputation across 
the organisation. We were pleased that the 
Group Chief Executive agreed to attend our 
meetings regularly at my invitation, so that we 
continue to focus on strong leadership of the 
culture and conduct of the Group as a whole. 
We have established effective relationships 
with the boards and committees of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC. We 
strengthened our interactions with the 
Risk Committee: it was particularly valuable 
to share the results of Strategic Risk 
Assessments by the operational risk team, 
with recommendations on improving the 
product risk review and financial crime 
control processes. We maintained our 
close relationship with the Remuneration 
Committee, since performance incentives 
are integral to conduct and culture. 

Committee performance
The performance of the Committee was 
assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, 
an independent, external corporate governance 
consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness 
review. The results confirm that the Committee 
is operating effectively, and note that it is 
thorough in its approach. Last year's review 
suggested that further consideration needed 
to be given to the continued oversight of 
Conduct and Reputation Risk matters 
post-structural reform. This is something that 
is being kept under review by the Committee, 
and we are considering inviting more business 
heads to present their views to the Committee 
in addition to the presentations from function 
heads we currently receive. You can read more 
about the outcomes of the review of Board, 
Board Committee and individual Director 
effectiveness on page 71.

What we did in 2018
Board Reputation Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

The Committee welcomed the launch of Barclays' new 
Purpose, which emphasises that our financial services play 
an essential role in enabling individuals and businesses 
to seize their opportunities.

<Page End><Page Start>
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Reputation Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Looking ahead
Finally, I would like to record my thanks 
to the Committee members, Group Chief 
Compliance Officer, Laura Padovani, and wider 
senior management for their continued hard 
work. In 2019, the Committee looks forward 
to continuing its support of the Board in 
promoting its vision of Barclays' Purpose, 
Values, Culture and Behaviours and of 
management in embedding the right Culture 
and Conduct across the Barclays Group, and 
driving down Conduct and Reputation Risk.

Mary Francis
Chair, Board Reputation Committee
20 February 2019

Committee allocation of time (%)

1

2
3

4

5

2018 2017
1 Conduct and 

compliance 41 36
2 Culture 19 20
3 Reputation risk 16 14
4 Customer satisfaction 13 14
5 Citizenship 11 16

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is composed solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. The 
members of the Committee are Mary Francis, 
Mike Ashley, Dambisa Moyo, and Mike Turner. 
Mike Turner joined the Board on 1 January 
2018 and became a member of the Committee 
with effect from 11 January 2018. Sir Gerry 
Grimstone left the Committee on 1 April 2018 
when he became Chair of Barclays Bank PLC. 
You can find more details of the experience 
of Committee members in their biographies 
on pages 51 and 52.

The Committee held five scheduled meetings 
during 2018 and the chart shows how it 
allocated its time. Attendance by members 
at Committee meetings is shown below. 
Committee meetings were attended by 
representatives from management, including 
the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Compliance Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, 
Group Chief Risk Officer, Group General 
Counsel, Group Chief of Staff, Group HR 
Director and the Group Head of Corporate 
Relations, as well as representatives from 
the businesses and other functions. The lead 
audit partner of KPMG (the Barclays Group's 
external auditor) attended all Committee 
meetings in 2018 – from January to July this 
was Guy Bainbridge; from August onwards 
this was Michelle Hinchliffe. Representatives 
from the BSB also attended two meetings.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend*
Mary Francis 5/5
Mike Ashley 5/5
Sir Gerry Grimstone (to 1 April 2018) 2/2
Dambisa Moyo 5/5
Mike Turner 5/5

* Including one combined meeting of the Risk 
Committee and the Reputation Committee.

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ supporting the Board in promoting its 

collective vision of Barclays' Purpose, 
Values, Culture and Behaviours

■■ reviewing, on behalf of the Board, 
the management of Conduct and 
Reputation Risk

■■ overseeing Barclays' conduct in relation 
to its corporate and societal obligations, 
including setting the guidance, direction 
and policies for Barclays' approach to 
customer and regulatory matters and 
Barclays' Citizenship Strategy, including 
advising the Board and management 
on these matters

■■ safeguarding the independence of and 
overseeing the performance of Barclays' 
Compliance function, including the 
performance of the Group Chief 
Compliance Officer.

The Committee's terms of reference are available 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Conduct risk Conducting robust reviews of 
any current and emerging risks 
arising from the inappropriate 
provision of financial services

■■ Discussed updates from 
management on conduct risk and 
considered performance against 
key conduct risk indicators, and 
the status of initiatives in place 
to address those risks and further 
strengthen the culture of 
the business.

■■ Requested and considered deep 
dive analyses on conduct risk, 
including on progress in 
developing intelligence-led 
initiatives to combat fraud.

■■ Received reports on internal 
audit activities relating to 
conduct, including details of any 
unsatisfactory audit reports and 
remediation steps identified.

■■ Received updates on the 
implementation of the revised Code 
of Conduct, The Barclays Way.

■■ Reviewed the Compliance 
function's annual compliance plan.

Management was engaged in thorough 
discussion and challenge on the conduct 
risk dashboard, and alignment with the 
Culture Dashboard. 

The Committee was particularly pleased 
with the level of conduct risk insight 
received from the use of data analytic 
tools and from the deep dive sessions. 

The Committee benefited from the 
presentation of material conduct structured 
scenario assessments, described in the 
‘Governance in action' section of this report 
on page 76.

The Committee challenged management 
to align analysis and control of conduct risk 
with that of other Principal Risks, such as 
Market and Credit Risk, and approved the 
revised Conduct Risk Management 
Framework and the 2019 Annual 
Compliance Plan.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 75

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Cultural progress Reviewing management's 
progress in embedding 
a values-based culture across 
the organisation. 

■■ Debated culture dashboards 
and the progress being made 
to embed cultural change across 
Barclays globally. 

■■ Received regular updates on 
colleague engagement metrics 
and the results of employee 
Your View surveys. 

■■ Received reports on internal audit 
activities relating to culture. 

■■ Considered and discussed with 
representatives of the Banking 
Standards Board the results 
of their 2017 and 2018 Annual 
Reviews of Barclays and 
received periodic updates from 
management detailing follow 
up against the 2017 key findings.

■■ Received information on 
management's initiatives to 
improve colleague well-being 
and resilience, including actively 
encouraging employees to work 
dynamically and bolstering the 
supportive environment in which 
colleagues feel able to talk about 
the impacts of stress and mental 
health concerns.

Following the Committee's challenge to 
improve the use of the Culture Dashboard, 
it was satisfied with management's progress 
to evolve and align the culture dashboards 
with the conduct dashboards 

Through consideration of the Your View 
results in each quarter, the Committee 
was encouraged by the high colleague 
engagement scores achieved throughout 
2018 and especially in response to launch 
of the new Purpose, and by improvements 
made to the perception of colleagues' 
working environments, and in reducing 
bureaucracy. The Committee appreciated 
management's acknowledgement that 
further improvement is still required in these 
areas and of the need to continue to embed 
and instil the desired culture Group-wide, 
and was supportive of the work undertaken 
by the Group Chief Executive to continue 
to drive the desired culture across the 
Barclays Group. 

The Committee regularly discussed the 
importance of an open and honest culture 
in which colleagues feel able to speak up 
and raise concerns.

Reputation and 
brand

Ensuring that Reputation risks 
and issues are identified and 
managed appropriately.

■■ Reviewed at each meeting 
key significant and emerging 
Reputation risks facing Barclays, 
receiving specific information on 
business action to address those 
issues and the outcomes of 
horizon scanning.

■■ Regularly evaluated the measures 
being taken to understand external 
perceptions of the Bank, including 
2018 YouGov Reputation Research.

■■ Considered whether the process 
for identifying, managing and 
overseeing Reputation risk was 
functioning effectively. 

■■ Reviewed the refreshed Reputation 
Risk Management Framework.

The Committee achieved greater oversight 
from enhanced Reputation risk reports, and 
minutes of meetings of Risk Committees 
of major subsidiaries.

The Committee held significant discussion 
on and challenged management to, 
enhance the Reputation Risk framework 
to better align it to other Principal Risks 
Frameworks, and approved the refreshed 
Reputation Risk Management Framework.

Customer 
satisfaction

Ensuring fair outcomes for 
customers by monitoring 
complaints volumes, the 
standard and quality of 
complaints handling processes, 
root cause analysis of 
complaints, and other relevant 
metrics.

■■ Received bi-annual updates 
on complaints and challenged 
the performance against 
key indicators.

■■ Considered the quality of the 
processes in place to address and 
resolve customer complaints.

■■ Monitored trends in the 
underlying causes of complaints 
and considered forward looking 
analysis to identify events 
(both industry-wide and Barclays-
specific) which could influence the 
volume and timings of complaints.

The Committee was pleased to see 
a general downward trend (excluding PPI) 
in the overall number of complaints 
received by Barclays during 2018.

Management was challenged to make, 
and made, steady progress in refining 
and aligning complaints management and 
reporting and the Committee noted that 
and that further improvement was required.

<Page End><Page Start>
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

What we did in 2018
Board Reputation Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Environmental and 
social matters, 
including Citizenship

Monitoring progress against 
Barclays' Citizenship plan and 
considering and approving the 
approach to future Citizenship 
strategy. Overseeing Barclays' 
commitment to managing 
its impact on broader society, 
including conduct in relation 
to corporate and societal 
obligations. 

■■ Received and considered the 
bi-annual summary Citizenship 
dashboards, assessing status 
updates on the Shared Growth 
Ambition as the plan drew to 
an end.

■■ Reviewed Barclays' ratings 
and relative peer ranking in 
external ESG benchmarks and 
tracked external perceptions on 
Citizenship through stakeholder 
and media analysis.

■■ Reviewed updates at each meeting 
on reputation risk considerations 
of sensitive sector engagement.

The Committee was pleased with the 
strong successes created by Shared Growth 
Ambition (2016-2018) and it approved 
management's approach to evolving 
Barclays' Citizenship strategy for 2019, and 
supported the extension of our community 
investment initiatives (LifeSkills, Connect 
with Work and Unreasonable Impact) and 
ensuring that our public commitments 
are clear. 

The Committee recognised the need for 
greater clarity in Barclays' public social 
and environmental commitments and 
challenged management to assess and 
improve communication on Barclays' 
positioning. The Committee approved the 
policy statements on Coal, World Heritage 
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, published in 
April 2018 and the comprehensive Energy 
and Climate Change Statement published 
in January 2019.

You can read more about our approach 
to ESG, Citizenship and our Shared 
Growth Ambition on pages 22 to 25 of the 
Strategic Report, with further detail in our 
Environmental Social Governance report.

In addition, the Committee also covered the 
following matters:
■■ received and reviewed minutes of Barclays 

Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Risk 
Committee meetings

■■ received a report on management's annual 
review of the effectiveness of compliance 
with the Volcker Rule (restrictions on 
proprietary trading and certain fund 
investments by banks operating in the US)

■■ received a report from management 
on Barclays' Swap Dealer Annual 
Compliance Report

■■ evaluated the outcomes of the assessment 
of the Committee's performance and any 
areas of Committee performance that 
needed to be enhanced

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

You can read more about Barclays' risk 
management on pages 129 to 148, and in our 
Pillar 3 Report, which is available online at 
barclays.com/annualreport

Governance in action –  
Structured Scenario Assessments
Structured Scenario Assessments (SSAs) 
were developed by the Barclays Group 
Operational Risk Team. They use scenario 
analysis to explore the risks in extreme but 
plausible situations. The results provide 
the opportunity to understand, assess and 
manage tail risk as well as contributing to 
calculations of capital requirements and risk 
tolerance across the Barclays Group. The 
SSAs covering operational risk highlight that 
instances of misconduct – especially arising 
from mistreatment of customers and 
markets, and financial crime – are among 
the most significant tail risks facing most 
banks today.

The Committee has had sight of all prescribed 
scenario topics used in the SSAs, and it 
requested presentations on a number of 
those which are conduct-focused. At its 
meetings in June, October, and December, 
the Committee received presentations on:

■■ Operational Risk: Conduct Capital 
Allocation.

■■ Retail Mis-selling.
■■ Financial Crime. 

The Committee gained valuable insights 
from these presentations on the drivers 
of past cases of misconduct in the banking 
sector, and ways of strengthening controls 
to guard against extreme risks in the future, 
for instance through enhanced product 
review processes. It is very supportive of the 
use of SSAs by the business, and the level 
of technical insight of conduct-related risks 
they bring to the Committee. They provide 
an opportunity for the Committee to 
independently challenge and explore the 
topics, methodology and results. The 
Committee will continue to receive 
presentations on the material conduct-
related SSAs during 2019.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 77

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Dear Fellow Shareholders
During 2018, the Committee continued to pay 
careful attention to the potential impact of 
macro-economic developments and market 
volatility on the risk profile of the bank. As 
in 2017, these issues remain challenging and 
we continue to work with management to 
position the bank conservatively to deal with 
political and economic uncertainty. In particular, 
the Committee has closely examined the 
impact of uncertainty stemming from the 
process of UK withdrawal from the European 
Union (EU), as well as the broader global 
political and economic landscape. In addition, 
it has reviewed the operational risk profile 
of the bank, and its resilience to internal and 
external threats. Themes that the committee 
evaluated in 2018 included UK corporate 
and consumer credit risk, in particular in the 
context of uncertainty created as a result of 
the possibility of a disorderly UK withdrawal 
from the EU – in this context the Committee 
is also monitoring operational resilience in 
relation to leaving the EU without reaching an 
agreement, considering issues of operational 
and broader business continuity. Other key 
risks that the committee is monitoring with 
potential for wider contagion include those 
related to increased market volatility and the 
impact of a Chinese slowdown, although 
direct exposure to the latter is limited and of 
high quality. The Committee also considered 
updates on risk themes related to US 
Consumer Credit and European peripheral and 
redenomination risk, as well as operational 
risks related to cyber security. These risks 
are actively monitored and managed and the 
Committee maintains regular oversight 
of the risk profile and actions taken.

Credit risk management in 2018 was 
particularly focused on maintenance of the 
defensive positioning of our UK portfolios, 
continuing the approach which has been 
pursued since the UK Referendum on leaving 
the EU in June 2016. Following a high profile 
single-name corporate failure in 2017, the 
Committee also received a detailed analysis 
from management on ‘Tall Tree' exposures 
in the Corporate bank, both in the UK and US, 
to understand the portfolio composition, 
governance and approval processes, as well 
as key risks and mitigants. The Committee 
was satisfied that the portfolio was operating 
satisfactorily within established limits but 

encouraged management to maintain 
a high level of vigilance. In addition, based 
on concerns of a US economic slowdown 
and wider global trade shocks affecting global 
growth, the Committee also reviewed with 
management the Barclays Group's Leveraged 
Finance portfolio exposure, which was split 
between direct (portfolio holds) and indirect 
(underwriting) risk. In terms of consumer 
credit, debt levels had continued to rise 
both in the UK and US. However, a steady 
transition to a higher quality book together 
with management's conservative approach 
to lending continued the good progress 
of previous years to strengthen the Barclays 
Group's credit risk profile across the consumer 
portfolio. This continued focus on book 
quality is evidenced by a significant reduction 
in impairment for the year.

In relation to risk-taking in the Investment 
Bank, the Committee monitored the progress 
across a number of initiatives, and noted that 
growth had been appropriately controlled 
in line with stated intentions, and adequate 
controls through risk frameworks and 
second-line oversight were in place.

During the year, the Committee continued 
to monitor the progress being made by 
management in the identification, assessment 
and management of operational risk. An 
essential component is improvement in the 
Risk and Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs). 
These are now derived from a process-based 
approach which will enable management to 
better identify and manage operational risks. 
In addition, the Committee was pleased to see 
progress in the implementation of Structured 
Scenario Assessments (SSAs). These are 
used to evaluate operational risk arising 
from more extreme, but plausible situations. 
The Committee was able to review outputs 
from the SSAs related to Critical Application 
Disruption and Large Scale Data Disruption, 
both of which are key areas of Board and 
regulatory focus in relation to operational 
resilience.

The Committee also evaluated Barclays 
approach to the management of cyber risk, 
receiving a briefing on the current cyber threat 
landscape and Barclays strategy and capability 
for responding to the threat. This included 
a detailed briefing on the build-out of 
transformational improvements to Barclays 

security programme. This work, which is 
scheduled to complete by 2019, includes 
a range of actions designed to enable 
more accurate prediction of cyberattacks 
and increase the speed of detection of 
cyber events.

One of the key roles of the Committee is 
to recommend to the Board the overall risk 
appetite of the bank: its ability to earn an 
appropriate return while being able to 
withstand shocks in the market and economic 
environment. In this context, as well as 
reviewing internal stress tests, the Committee 
monitors closely the assessment of Barclays 
PLC's performance under a variety of 
regulatory stress tests including those 
conducted by the US Federal Reserve (CCAR) 
and the Bank of England (BoE) – in each case 
meeting the appropriate minimum capital 
requirments – and the biennial European 
Banking Authority (EBA) stress test.

Given the high level of reliance on model 
outputs in supporting our stress tests, the 
Committee continued to evaluate progress 
made in the improvement of model risk 
management in the Barclays Group. While 
recognising that there is further work to do, 
the Committee is pleased that substantial 
progress was made through 2018 as 
evidenced by an increasingly stable model 
inventory and further improvements in 
documentation and control.

In late 2017, the Committee commissioned 
an external third party assessment of the 
Risk function, which was delivered in 2018. 
The review concluded that the function 
meets regulatory expectations, is meeting 
or exceeding industry standards, evidences 
effective and independent oversight with good 
evidence of challenge, with strong stewardship 
and technical competence. The Committee 
encouraged management to develop action 
plans to address the areas highlighted in the 
assessment where evolution of regulatory 
expectations or best practice will require focus 
in 2019 and these plans will be monitored by 
the Committee.

What we did in 2018
Board Risk Committee report

Governance: Directors' report

One of the key roles of the Committee is to review and 
challenge the risk appetite of the bank: its ability to earn 
an appropriate return while being able to withstand shocks.

<Page End><Page Start>
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2018
Board Risk Committee report

Committee performance
The Committee's performance during 2018 
was assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, 
an independent, external corporate governance 
consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness 
review. The results show that the Committee's 
work is regarded as clear, systematic and 
thorough, and the Board takes assurance from 
the quality of the Committee's work. Last 
year's review highlighted the need to ensure 
that the way in which the Committee works 
with the Audit Committee and the Reputation 
Committee continues to capture all significant 
issues effectively while minimising any overlap. 
To address this, the Committee sought to 
ensure that it continued to work closely with 
the other Board Committees during 2018 
and the results of the review note good 
co-ordination with the Audit Committee, in 
particular. The results indicate that, in 2019, 
it may be helpful to consider areas where 
the work of the Committee could be further 
streamlined in conjunction with the risk 
committees of Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Bank PLC.

You can read more about the outcomes 
of the review of Board, Board Committee and 
individual Director effectiveness on page 71.

Looking ahead
In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus 
on the impact of the external environment 
on the risk profile of the bank, particularly 
as the position in relation to the UK withdrawal 
from the EU becomes clearer. Following the 
feedback from the independent Board 
evaluation, we will also consider opportunities 
to optimise activities with the risk committees 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank 
PLC. Finally, the committee will continue to 
evaluate progress made by the Risk function 
in further developing its capabilities and impact.

Tim Breedon
Chair, Board Risk Committee
20 February 2019

Committee composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised solely of 
independent non-executive Directors. 
You can find more details of the experience 
of Committee members in their biographies 
on pages 51 and 52.

Committee allocation of time (%)

1

2

3

4

2018 2017
1 Risk profile/risk appetite 

(including capital and 
liquidity management) 56 53

2 Key risk issues 26 26
3 Internal control/risk 

policies 9 12
4 Other (including 

remuneration and 
governance issues) 9 9

* Based on scheduled meetings

During 2018, the Committee met nine times, 
and the chart above shows how it allocated 
its time. Two of the meetings were held 
at Barclays' New York offices. Committee 
meetings were attended by representatives 
from management, including the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
Group Chief Internal Auditor, Group Chief 
Risk Officer, Group Treasurer and Group 
General Counsel, as well as representatives 
from the businesses and other representatives 
from the Risk function. The lead audit partner 
of KPMG (the Barclays Group's external 
auditor) attended all Committee meetings 
in 2018 – from January to July this was 
Guy Bainbridge; from August onwards this 
was Michelle Hinchliffe.

Member Meetings attended/eligible to attend
Tim Breedon 9/9
Mike Ashley 9/9
Mary Anne Citrino  
(from 1 November 2018) 2/2
Reuben Jeffery III 8/9
Matthew Lester 9/9
Diane Schueneman 9/9

* Including one combined meeting of the Risk 
Committee and the Reputation Committee.

Committee role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
■■ recommending to the Board the Barclays 

Group's risk appetite for financial, 
operational and legal risk

■■ monitoring financial, operational and legal 
risk appetite, including setting limits for 
individual types of risk, e.g. credit, market 
and funding risk

■■ monitoring the Barclays Group's financial, 
operational and legal risk profile

■■ commissioning, receiving and considering 
reports on key financial operational and 
legal risk issues

■■ providing input from a financial and 
operational risk perspective to the 
Remuneration Committee to assist in its 
deliberations relating to incentive packages.

The Committee's terms of reference are available 
at home.barclays/corporategovernance

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 79

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

The Committee's work
The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Risk appetite and 
stress testing
i.e. the level of risk 
the Barclays Group 
chooses to take in 
pursuit of its business 
objectives, including 
testing whether the 
Barclays Group's 
financial position and 
risk profile provide 
sufficient resilience 
to withstand the 
impact of severe 
economic stress.

The risk context to Medium 
Term Plan (MTP), the financial 
parameters and constraints 
and mandate and scale limits for 
specific business risk exposures; 
the Barclays Group's internal 
stress testing exercises, including 
scenario selection and financial 
constraints, stress testing 
themes and the results and 
implications of stress tests, 
including those run by the 
Bank of England (BoE) and 
the European Banking 
Authority (EBA).

■■ To discuss and agree stress loss 
and mandate and scale limits, 
for Credit Risk, Market Risk and 
Treasury and Capital risk.

■■ To evaluate the BoE annual cyclical 
stress test results, and the results 
of a stress test under the EBA 
biennial stress test submission.

■■ Considered and approve internal 
stress test themes and the 
financial constraints and scenarios 
for stress testing risk appetite for 
the MTP.

■■ To consider the Federal Reserve 
Board's feedback of the US 
Intermediary Holding Company's 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) following the 
submission of the CCAR stress 
test results.

The Committee reviewed proposed 
enhancements to the Barclays Group's 
stress testing processes which are designed 
to improve capabilities in this area.

The Committee reviewed and approved, for 
recommendation to the Board, the financial 
results of the MTP internal stress test 
exercise on the basis that Barclays remained 
within the Barclays Group's Risk Appetite. 

The Committee requested and received an 
overview of the stress testing principles and 
objectives which served to provide a helpful 
framework for the review of the stress test 
results submissions to the BoE and EBA.

The Committee approved the 2018 annual 
stress test results for submission to the BoE, 
including a range of strategic management 
actions, in addition to the standard BAU 
management actions designed to mitigate 
risk impacts. 

Similarly, the Committee approved the 
results of the stress test under the biennial 
EBA stress test submission.

Capital and funding 
i.e. having sufficient 
capital and financial 
resources to meet 
the Barclays 
Group's regulatory 
requirements and its 
obligations as they 
fall due, to maintain 
its credit rating, to 
support growth and 
strategic options.

The trajectory to achieving 
required regulatory and 
internal targets and capital 
and leverage ratios.

■■ To review on a regular basis, 
capital performance against plan, 
tracking the capital trajectory, any 
challenges and opportunities and 
regulatory policy developments.

■■ To assess on a regular basis 
liquidity performance against both 
internal and regulatory 
requirements.

■■ To monitor capital and funding 
requirements. 

The Committee examined and supported 
the forecast capital and funding trajectory 
and the actions identified by management 
to manage the Barclays Group's 
capital position.

The Committee considered and approved 
the Barclays Group capital adequacy 
assessment together with the methodologies 
and results of the reverse stress testing for 
submission of the 2018 Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) as 
well as the Barclays Group's 2018 Individual 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ILAAP). Approvals included, for the first 
time, assessments for Barclays Bank PLC 
and Barclays Bank UK PLC on an individual 
basis, as required by the Regulator.

The Committee also considered and 
discussed feedback from the Regulator 
in relation to the ICAAP submission and 
requested management to provide regular 
updates on planned improvements to the 
ICAAP process in response to the feedback.

<Page End><Page Start>
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2018
Board Risk Committee report

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Political and 
economic risk 
i.e. the impact on 
the Barclays Group's 
risk profile of political 
and economic 
developments and 
macroeconomic 
conditions.

The potential impact on the 
Barclays Group's risk profile of 
geopolitical developments, as 
well as continuing to monitor the 
potential political and economic 
impact of Brexit scenarios

■■ To review and discuss plans for 
the impacts of Brexit under various 
withdrawal scenarios.

■■ To consider trends in the UK and 
US economies, including the 
impact of rate rises.

■■ To assess the transmission effects 
of a Chinese economic slowdown/
trade war metrics arising from its 
influence on the world economy.

■■ To review exposures to Emerging 
Markets as a result of volatility in 
these markets arising from the 
impact of global political and 
economic events

In relation to the potential risk impacts 
of Brexit, considerations were escalated to 
include operational resilience to the impact 
risk of an exit with no agreement in place.

Other key material risk themes kept 
under review by the Committee included 
stress in US consumer credit and stress 
in UK property. 

A new theme of Italian peripheral and 
redenomination risk was added as a key 
risk theme.

The Committee directed management 
to apply additional focus to monitoring 
evidence of rising global leverage, credit 
cycle and geopolitical risks. 

Credit risk
i.e. the potential 
for financial loss if 
customers fail to fulfil 
their contractual 
obligations.

Conditions in the UK housing 
market, particularly in London 
and the South East; levels of 
UK consumer indebtedness, 
particularly in the context of 
the risk of inflation and negative 
real wage growth; and the 
performance of the UK and US 
Cards businesses, including 
levels of impairment.

■■ To assess conditions in the UK 
property market and monitor 
signs of stress.

■■ To monitor how management 
was tracking and responding 
to persistent rising levels of 
consumer indebtedness, 
particularly unsecured credit 
in both the UK and US.

■■ To review Leveraged Finance 
portfolios in order to assess these 
were within risk appetite and 
manageable limits.

■■ To review business development 
activities in the Corporate and 
Investment Bank. 

The Committee reiterated to management 
the need to ensure appropriate credit 
selection and discipline when selecting 
business, and the importance of consumer 
profiling to achieve better risk selection.

The Committee encouraged management 
to continue with its conservative approach 
to UK lending and supported pre-emptive 
measures to de-risk the UK Cards portfolio 
to guard against any downturn in the 
UK economy.

Operational risk
i.e. costs arising from 
human factors, 
inadequate processes 
and systems or 
external events.

The Barclays Group's operational 
risk capital requirements and any 
material changes to the Barclays 
Group's operational risk profile 
and performance of specific 
operational risks against agreed 
risk appetite.

■■ To track operational risk key 
indicators.

■■ To consider specific areas of 
operational risks, including fraud, 
conduct risk, cyber risk, execution 
risk, technology and data, 
including the controls that had 
been put in place for managing 
and avoiding such risks.

■■ To review Barclays' approach 
to scenario analyses as a risk 
management tool and assess 
a range of Structured Scenario 
Assessments which had been 
created to support assessments 
and management of tail risk within 
the business, stress testing and 
risk tolerance.

The Committee focused its attention on the 
financial and capital impacts of operational 
risk. In relation to cyber risk, the Committee 
received an update on the transformational 
improvements to Barclays' security posture 
and associated controls in this area and 
endorsed management plans to remediate 
and implement new controls designed 
to enable more accurate prediction of 
cyberattacks and increase speed of detection 
of cyber events in order to minimise impact 
on Barclays and client/customers. In relation 
to Fraud and Transaction Operation risks, 
the Committee requested and assessed 
a report on Barclays' fraud capabilities to 
reduce losses in these areas.

The Committee approved the 2018 
Operational Risk Tolerance Statement, 
which proposed a higher tolerance of 
operational risks, provided these have 
a ‘Risk Reduction Plan' based on approved 
control improvements. 

The Committee reviewed and approved 
two ‘material outsourcing' programmes 
which supported the roll-out of Barclays 
Cloud outsourcing.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 81

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion/action taken

Model risk 
i.e. the risk of the 
potential adverse 
consequences from 
financial assessments 
or decisions based 
on incorrect or 
misused model 
outputs and reports.

Model risk governance. ■■ To evaluate the appropriateness 
of the Barclays' Model Risk 
Management framework, 
and monitor progress on the 
implementation of an enhanced 
modelling framework, including 
receiving updates on findings 
in relation to specific modelling 
processes.

The Committee reviewed and approved 
the Model Risk Framework and Tolerance 
Statement.

The Committee maintained oversight of 
Model risk and in particular monitored 
planned improvements to Barclays' Model 
Risk Management framework and ongoing 
upgrade plans. This included reviewing 
and assessing Barclays' material alignment 
with the PRA Supervisory Statement on 
stress test models. The Committee agreed 
an approach towards other Large Model 
Frameworks such as ICAAP, ILAAP and 
stress testing and monitored progress 
to ensure that the scope of Model Risk 
Management (MRM) implementation 
was expanded to bring into governance 
non-modelled methods used in other 
Large Model Frameworks. The Committee 
urged management to focus on remediation 
of models used in financial planning and 
stress testing where these were currently 
non-compliant with the regulator's guidance.

In relation to progress with MRM 
implementation, the Committee observed 
progress with validation of Tier 1 (material) 
models which had been documented under 
new enhanced standards, as well as the 
documentation of Tier 2 and Tier 3 models. 

The Committee also maintained oversight 
of the models used in the CCAR 2018 
submission to ensure these were materially 
brought into governance by management. 
The substantive completion of this exercise 
was believed to have been a significant 
factor in the positive CCAR result.

Risk framework and 
governance

The frameworks, policies 
and talent and tools in place 
to support effective risk 
management and oversight.

■■ To track the progress of significant 
risk management projects, 
including progress on achieving 
compliance with the Basel 
Committee for Banking Supervision 
(BCBS239) risk data aggregation 
principles and reviewed the results 
of the 2017 Risk and Control 
Self-Assessment (RCSA) process 
across the Barclays Group together 
with an update on the approach 
to the 2018 RCSA process.

■■ To assess risk management 
matters raised by Barclays' 
regulators and the actions being 
taken by management to respond.

■■ To review the design of the 
Barclays Group's Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF).

The Committee assessed during the year 
the Barclays Group's risk management 
capability in the form of an independent 
assessment of the design and effectiveness 
of the Risk function. 

The Committee discussed and approved 
an annual refresh of the Principal Risk 
Frameworks under the remit of 
the Committee. 

The annual update to the ERMF was also 
approved by the Committee.

Remuneration The scope of any risk adjustments 
to be taken into account by the 
Board Remuneration Committee 
when making remuneration 
decisions for 2018.

■■ To debate the Risk function's 
view of performance, making 
a recommendation to the Board 
Remuneration Committee on the 
financial and operational risk 
factors to be taken into account 
in remuneration decisions for 2018.

The Committee discussed the report of 
the Chief Risk Officer and considered the 
proposal put forward in relation to the 
impact of relevant risk factors in 
determining 2018 remuneration.

Read more about Barclays' risk management on pages 129 to 130 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at home.barclays/annualreport

<Page End><Page Start>
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Directors' report

What we did in 2018
Board Risk Committee report

In addition, the Committee also covered the 
following matters in 2018:
■■ reviewed and assessed Barclays' liquidity 

pool investment portfolio from a perspective 
of the limit framework defined by Risk

■■ considered and approved a large non-
investment grade transaction underwriting 
commitment on the basis of exposure 
within distribution activity limits

■■ considered detailed report of ‘Tall Trees' 
exposure in Corporate lending and 
Leveraged Finance portfolios

■■ considered detailed reports in relation 
to growth opportunities in the Investment 
Bank from a risk/activities perspective 

■■ considered a report on the effectiveness 
of the Committee and any areas of the 
Committee's performance that could 
be improved

■■ reviewed and updated its terms of 
reference, recommending them to the 
Board for approval.

Read more about Barclays' risk management  
on pages 129 to 130 and in our Pillar 3 
Report, which is available online at 
barclays.com/annualreport

Governance in action –  
Risk of the UK's planned departure from the EU
A key focus of the committee in 2018 was 
the continued oversight of management's 
actions to respond to the political and 
economic uncertainty following the UK's 
decision to leave the EU, above and beyond 
the Group's intention to continue to serve 
its customers in the EU through expansion 
of its banking licence in Ireland. The 
Committee's oversight has evolved as the 
final date for the UK exit from the EU comes 
closer, and is summarised below:
■■ Throughout the year, management 

continued to update the committee 
on management of UK portfolio risks 
consistent with the cautious approach 
recommended in the light of political 
and economic uncertainty. Relevant risk 
themes were also monitored by the 
committee in considering the evolution 
of the risk profile, in particular those 
related to UK consumer and corporate 
risk, UK property price stress and the 
UK retail sector.

■■ As the potential for a disorderly exit 
from the EU increased, the Committee 
encouraged management to further 
intensify scrutiny over those sectors 
of the economy most likely to be 
adversely impacted and received reports 
highlighting management actions to 
proactively address these risks. 

■■ In addition, to provide increased focus on 
issues of operational resilience associated 
with a disorderly Brexit, a ‘war room' 
was established by senior management 
to identify those risks which were most 
pertinent to continuity of business, 
and the committee has reviewed and 
discussed the key risks highlighted and 
management's risk mitigation approach. 
The risks considered by the Committee 
include operational, legal, people, liquidity 
and capital related risks.

■■ Finally, as the UK parliamentary process 
nears its conclusion, the Committee has 
received updates from management 
as to its monitoring of expected market 
volatility with additional oversight 
established to review and assess market 
behaviour, risk exposure, and operational 
impacts in the event of abnormal volatility 
and transaction volumes.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 83

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

How we comply
Governance: Directors' report

Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules
By virtue of the information included in this 
Governance section of the Annual Report 
we comply with the corporate governance 
statement requirements of the FCA's 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. 
Certain additional information that is required 
to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.6 can be 
found on pages 89 to 92.

New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow 
UK corporate governance practices instead 
of those applied in the US. However, any 
significant variations must be explained in 
Barclays PLC Form 20-F filing, which can be 
accessed from the Securities and Exchange 
Commission's EDGAR database or on our 
website, home.barclays.

Leadership
Role of the Board
As highlighted earlier in this report, the Board 
of Directors is responsible for promoting the 
highest standards of corporate governance 
in the Barclays Group. We act in a way that 
we consider promotes the success of Barclays 
for the benefit of shareholders as a whole, 
and are accountable to the shareholders for 
creating and delivering sustainable value. 
We are responsible for the overall leadership 
of the Barclays Group, including establishing 
its purpose, values and strategy, and satisfying 
ourselves as to the alignment of Barclays' 
culture to its purpose, values and strategy. 
In 2018, the Board approved a new common 
purpose for the Barclays Group – Creating 
Opportunities to Rise – which reflects 
Barclays' entrepreneurial spirit, relentless 
quest for better, customer and client centricity, 
and our commitments to society at large and 
to our colleagues.

The Board is also responsible for ensuring 
that management maintains a sound system 
of audit, risk management, compliance and 
internal control.

For further information about the role of the 
Board and its responsibilities, together with 
the Board governance framework, please see 
page 53 to 55.

Roles on the Board
Executive and non-executive Directors share 
the same duties and are subject to the same 
constraints. However, in line with the principles 
of The Code, a clear division of responsibilities 
has been established. The Chairman is 
responsible for leading and managing the 
work of the Board, while responsibility for the 
day-to-day management of Barclays has been 
delegated to the Group Chief Executive. The 
Group Chief Executive is supported in this role 
by the Barclays Group Executive Committee. 
Further information on membership of the 
Barclays Group Executive Committee can be 
found on page 53.

As a Board we have set out our expectations 
of each Director in Barclays' Charter of 
Expectations. This includes role profiles and 
the behaviours and competencies required 
for each role on the Board, namely the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman (to the extent 
one is required), Senior Independent Director, 
non-executive Directors, executive Directors 
and Committee Chairs. Pursuant to the 
Charter of Expectations, non-executive 
Directors provide effective oversight, strategic 
guidance and constructive challenge, examine 
proposals on strategy and empower the 
executive Directors to implement the strategy 
approved by the Board, whilst holding the 
executive Directors to account. The Senior 
Independent Director provides a sounding 
board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary 
for the other Directors when necessary and is 
available to shareholders if they have concerns 
that have not been addressed through the 
normal channels.

The Charter of Expectations is reviewed 
annually to ensure it remains relevant, and 
was recently updated to reflect our new 
corporate structure, the requirements 
of The New Code and The Regulations, 
and industry best practice. A copy of the 
Charter of Expectations can be found at 
home.barclays/corporategovernance.

Attendance
As members of the Board of Directors we 
are expected to attend every Board meeting. 
In 2018, we attended both scheduled and 
additional Board meetings (which were often 
called at short notice) and attendance was 
very strong, as recorded in the table on the 
following page. The Chairman met privately 
with the non-executive Directors ahead of 
each scheduled Board meeting and if, owing 
to exceptional circumstances, a Director was 
not able to attend a Board meeting he or she 
ensured that their views were made known 
to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.

The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (The Code)
As Barclays PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we apply the main principles of The Code, as set out below. A revised version of The Code 
was published in 2018, and came into effect for our financial year beginning on 1 January 2019 (The New Code). The New Code, together with 
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (The Regulations) which was also published in 2018 and came into effect for our 
financial year beginning on 1 January 2019, mark a major landmark in the UK government's suite of corporate governance reforms which aim 
to build trust in business. Barclays PLC will report against the requirements of The New Code and The Regulations in its next Annual Report. 
Please refer to the ‘Governance reporting for 2019' section on page 88 for a description of certain enhancements already made to our governance 
practices to reflect the requirements of The New Code and The Regulations.

A copy of The Code, and The New Code, can be found at frc.org.uk. For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as at the date of this report, 
we are pleased to confirm that we complied in full with the provisions of The Code.

The Board of Directors is 
responsible for promoting 
the highest standards of 
corporate governance in 
the Barclays Group

<Page End><Page Start>
84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

How we comply
Governance: Directors' report

Board attendance Independent

Scheduled
meetings

eligible 
to attend

Scheduled
 meetings 
attended

% 
attendance

Additional 
meetings 

eligible 
to attend

Additional 
meetings 
attended

Chairman
John McFarlane On appointment* 15 15 100 6 6

Executive Directors
Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 15 15 100 4 4
Jes Staley Executive Director 15 15 100 4 4

Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley Independent 15 15 100 5 5
Tim Breedon CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 5
Sir Ian Cheshire Independent 15 15 100 6 6
Mary Anne Citrino Independent 8 8 100 2 2
Mary Francis CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 6
Crawford Gillies Senior Independent Director 15 15 100 6 6
Sir Gerry Grimstone Independent 15 15 100 6 6
Reuben Jeffery III Independent 15 15 100 6 6
Matthew Lester Independent 15 15 100 6 5
Dambisa Moyo Independent 15 15 100 6 6
Diane Schueneman Independent 15 15 100 6 4
Mike Turner CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 6

Secretary
Stephen Shapiro 15 15 100 6 6

* As required by The Code, the Chairman was independent on appointment. 

Effectiveness
Composition of the Board
In line with the requirements of The Code, 
a majority of the Board are independent 
non-executive Directors. The Board currently 
comprises a Chairman, who was independent 
on appointment (as required by The Code), 
two executive Directors and 12 non-executive 
Directors. We consider the independence of 
our non-executive Directors annually, using 
the independence criteria set out in The 
Code and by reviewing performance against 
behaviours that we have identified as essential 
in order to be considered independent. As part 
of this process, the Board keeps under review 
the length of tenure of all Directors, which 
is a factor that is considered as part of 
its deliberations when determining the 
independence of our non-executive Directors. 
In accordance with the recommendations of 

The Code, the independence of Tim Breedon, 
Reuben Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo – all of 
whom have served on the Board for more than 
six years – was subjected to a more rigorous 
review. The Board remains satisfied that the 
lengths of their tenure have no impact on their 
respective levels of independence or the 
effectiveness of their contributions.

All appointments to the Board are based 
on merit and objective criteria, in the context 
of the strategy of the Barclays Group and 
the diversity of gender, social and ethnic 
backgrounds, cognitive and personal 
strengths, as well as skills, knowledge and 
experience required for the Board to be 
effective. Appointments are made following 
a formal, rigorous and transparent process. 

Diversity across the Barclays Group, remains 
a key area of focus. The Barclays Group 
recognises and embraces the benefits of 
a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board 
level as an essential element in maintaining 
a competitive advantage. The Nominations 
Committee regularly reviews the composition 
of the Board and the Board Committees. 
It frequently considers a skills matrix for the 
Board, which identifies the core competencies, 
skills, diversity and experience required for 
the Board to deliver its strategic aims and 
govern the Barclays Group effectively. Certain 
attributes identified in the skills matrix have 
a target weighting attached to them and these 
are regularly updated to reflect the needs of 
the Barclays Group. The size of the Board is 
not fixed and may be revised from time to 
time to reflect the changing needs of the 

Board Committee cross-membership
The table below shows the number of cross-memberships of our non-executive Directors across our Board Committees.

Board  
Audit  
Committee

Board  
Nominations 
Committee

Board  
Remuneration 
Committee

Board  
Reputation 
Committee

Board Risk Committee 3 3 1 1

Board Reputation Committee 1 1 2

Board Remuneration Committee 2 2

Board Nominations Committee 3

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 85

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

business. The Committee reviews the skills 
matrix when considering a potential new 
appointment to the Board, as well as 
reviewing the current and expected Board 
and Board Committee composition. This 
helps to determine a timeline for proposed 
appointments to the Board.

To the extent that the Nominations Committee 
identifies any gaps in the Board's profile – 
which may be a result of the forthcoming 
retirement of a Director, or in response to 
changing market needs – that information is 
used to inform the search for a new Director 
or Directors. For example, as at the date of 
this report, there are four female Directors 
(27%) against a target of having 33% female 
representation on the Board by 2020, to which 
we remain committed.

Directors are subject to election or re-election 
each year by shareholders at the AGM. Having 
served on the Board for nine years, Reuben 
Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo will both be 
retiring from the Board at this year's AGM and 
will not, therefore, be standing for re-election.

In recent years, the Board has assessed 
its effectiveness, and that of the Board 
Committees and the individual Directors, 
annually in a process facilitated by an 
independent third party. This has been driven 
by the Board's belief that an effective Board 
is key to the delivery of a company's strategy. 
A full external review of the effectiveness of 
the Board, the Board Committees and the 
individual Directors was assessed in Q4 of 
2018 in a process facilitated by Independent 
Board Evaluation, an independent, external 
corporate governance consultancy. The review 
assessed whether each of the Directors 
continues to discharge their respective duties 
and responsibilities effectively, and concluded 
that they do. The results of the review were 
considered when deciding whether individual 
Directors would offer themselves for election 
or re-election at the AGM. More information 
on the 2018 Board effectiveness review, and 
the Board's progress against the findings of 
the 2017 effectiveness review, can be found 
on page 71.

Our biographies containing our relevant skills 
and experience, Board Committee membership 
and other principal appointments can be 
found on pages 51 and 52. Details of changes 
to the Board in 2018 and year to date are 
disclosed on page 89.

The service contracts for the executive 
Directors and the letters of appointment for 
the Chairman and non-executive Directors are 
available for inspection at our registered office.

Time commitment
All potential new Directors are asked to 
disclose their significant commitments, 
and to give an indication of the time spent 
on those commitments. The Nominations 
Committee will then take this into account 
when considering a proposed appointment 
on the basis that all Directors are expected 
to allocate sufficient time to their role 
on the Board in order to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively. This includes 
attending, and being well-prepared for, all 
Board and Board Committee meetings, as well 
as making time to understand the business, 
meet with executives and regulators, and 
complete ongoing training. As stated in 
our Charter of Expectations, the time 
commitment associated with their respective 
roles is agreed with each non-executive 
Director on an individual basis. All significant 
new commitments require prior approval. 
Set out below is the average expected time 
commitment for the role of non-executive 
Directors and the other non-executive 
positions on the Board. For these additional 
positions there is an expectation that, in 
order to effectively fulfil extra responsibilities, 
additional time commitment is required.

Time commitment
Role Expected time commitment
Chairman Equivalent to up to 80% 

of a full time position
Senior 
Independent 
Director

As required to fulfil the role

Non-
executive 
Director

30 days per year (membership 
of one Board Committee 
included, increasing to 
40 days a year if a member 
of two Board Committees)

Committee 
Chairs

At least 60 days per year 
(including non-executive 
Director time commitment)

The Chairman must commit to expend 
whatever time is necessary to fulfil his duties 
and, while this is expected to be equivalent 
to up to 80% of a full time position, the role 
as Chairman of the Barclays Group, and 
leadership of the Board, have priority over 
other business commitments. In exceptional 
circumstances, we are all expected to commit 
significantly more time to our work on 
the Board.

As mentioned above, Directors are now obliged 
to obtain pre-clearance prior to taking on any 
additional commitments, including but not 
limited to directorships, and to indicate in the 
clearance request the likely time commitment 
involved. The Company Secretary maintains 
a record of each Director's commitments. 
For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as 
at the date of this report, the Board is satisfied 
that none of the Directors is over-committed 
and that each of the Directors allocates 
sufficient time to his or her role in order to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively.

Induction
On appointment to the Board, all Directors 
receive a comprehensive induction which 
is tailored to the new Director's individual 
requirements. The induction schedule is 
designed to quickly provide the new Director 
with an understanding of how the Barclays 
Group works and the key issues that it 
faces. The Company Secretary consults 
the Chairman when designing an induction 
schedule, giving consideration to the 
particular needs of the new Director. When 
a Director is joining a Board Committee, 
the schedule includes an induction to the 
operation of that committee.

On completion of the induction programme, 
the Director should have sufficient knowledge 
and understanding of the nature of the 
business, and the opportunities and challenges 
facing Barclays, to enable them to effectively 
contribute to strategic discussions and 
oversight of the Barclays Group.

Following her appointment in 2018, Mary 
Anne Citrino received such an induction. She 
met with the Company Secretary, the current 
non-executive Directors and members of the 
Barclays Group Executive Committee, and 
certain other senior executives, as part of that 
process. An extensive induction programme 
for Nigel Higgins is underway.

Training and development
In order to continue to contribute effectively 
to Board and Board Committee meetings, 
Directors are regularly provided with the 
opportunity to take part in ongoing training 
and development and can also request 
specific training that we may consider 
necessary or useful. As part of our annual 
performance review with the Chairman, 
we discuss any particular development needs 
that can be met through either formal training 
or meeting with a particular senior executive. 
In 2018, Directors received ongoing training in 
relation to legal and regulatory developments 
in the form of regular briefings. Topics 
included whistleblowing and the Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime.

Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, 
and the Articles of Association, the Board has 
the authority to authorise conflicts of interest. 
Directors are required to declare any potential 
or actual conflicts of interest that could 
interfere with their ability to act in the best 
interests of the Barclays Group. The Company 
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which 
is a record of actual and potential conflicts, 
together with any Board authorisation of 
the conflict. The authorisations are for an 
indefinite period but are reviewed annually 
by the Nominations Committee, which also 
considers the effectiveness of the process 
for authorising Directors' conflicts of interest. 
The Board retains the power to vary or 
terminate the authorisation at any time.

<Page End><Page Start>
86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

How we comply
Governance: Directors' report

Information provided to the Board
The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out 
in our Charter of Expectations, confirms his 
responsibility for ensuring that Board agendas 
are primarily focused on strategy, performance 
and key value creation issues and that 
members of the Board receive accurate, timely 
and high-quality information. In particular, 
we require information about Barclays' 
performance to enable us to take sound 
decisions, monitor effectively and provide 
advice to promote the success of the Company. 
Working in collaboration with the Chairman, 
the Company Secretary is responsible for 
ensuring good governance and consults 
Directors to ensure that the Board receives the 
information it requires in order to be effective.

Throughout the year, both the executive 
Directors and senior executives keep the 
Board informed of key developments in the 
business through regular reports and updates. 
These are in addition to the presentations that 
the Board and Board Committees receive as 
part of their formal meetings. Directors are 
able to seek independent and professional 
advice at Barclays' expense, if required, to 
enable them to fulfil their obligations as 
members of the Board.

Accountability
Internal governance processes have been 
developed to ensure the effective operation 
of the individual boards and board committees 
of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC respectively, in 
recognition of the fact that this is key to the 
development and execution of the Barclays 
Group's strategy. Generally, there is one 
set of rules for the Barclays Group; Barclays 
Group-wide frameworks, policies and 
standards are required to be adopted 
throughout the Barclays Group unless local 
laws or regulations (or the ring-fencing 
obligations applicable to Barclays Bank UK 
PLC) require otherwise, or the Barclays Group 
Executive Committee decides otherwise in 
a particular instance.

Risk management and internal control
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that 
management maintains an effective system 
of risk management and internal control and 
for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.

The Barclays Group is committed to operating 
within a strong system of internal control 
that enables business to be transacted and 
risk taken without exposure to unacceptable 
potential losses or reputational damage. 
Barclays has an overarching framework that 
sets out the approach of the Barclays Group 
to internal governance, The Barclays Guide, 
which establishes the mechanisms, principles 
and processes by which management 
implements the strategy set by the Board 
to direct the organisation, through setting 
the tone and expectations from the top, 
delegating its authority, exercising oversight 
and assessing compliance.

A key component of The Barclays Guide is 
the Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF). The purpose of the ERMF is to 
identify and set minimum requirements 
in respect of the main risks to achieving the 
strategic objectives of the Barclays Group. 
The key elements of the Barclays Group's 
system of risk management and internal 
control, which are aligned to the 
recommendations of The Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission, Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (2013 COSO), are set out in the 
risk frameworks relating to each of our eight 
Principal Risks and the Barclays Control 
Framework, which details requirements 
for the delivery of control responsibilities. 
Barclays Group-wide frameworks, policies 
and standards enable Barclays to meet 
regulators' expectations relating to internal 
control and assurance.

Effectiveness of internal controls
Key controls are assessed on a regular basis 
for both design and operating effectiveness. 
Issues arising out of business risk and control 
assessments and other internal and external 
sources are examined to identify pervasive 
themes. Where appropriate, control issues 
are reported to the Audit Committee. You 
can read more about the work of the Audit 
Committee on pages 58 to 67.

Risk management and internal 
control framework
The ERMF is the risk management and 
internal control framework for the Barclays 
Group. There are eight Principal Risks under 
the ERMF: Credit risk, Market risk, Treasury 
and Capital risk, Operational risk, Model risk, 
Reputation risk, Conduct risk and Legal risk.

The Audit Committee formally reviews the 
risk management and internal control system, 
including the ERMF, annually. Throughout 
the year ended 31 December 2018 and to 
date, the Barclays Group has operated 
a system of internal control that provides 
reasonable assurance of effective operations 
covering all controls, including financial and 
operational controls and compliance with 
laws and regulations. Processes are in place 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Principal Risks facing the Barclays Group 
in accordance with the Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting published 
by the FRC.

The review of the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control system is 
achieved through reviewing the effectiveness 
of the frameworks, principles and processes 
contained within The Barclays Guide, the 
ERMF and the Barclays Control Framework. 
Key considerations of the most recent 
review were: 
■■ The operation of Controls Committees 

of the Barclays Group and the key legal 
entities, businesses and functions in the 
Barclays Group to monitor, review and 
challenge the effective operation of key 
risk management and control processes, 
including the results of audits and 
reviews undertaken by BIA (which include 
assessments of the control environment 
and management control approach) and 
examinations and assessments undertaken 
by our primary regulators, on an ongoing 
basis. The remediation of issues identified 
within the control environment is regularly 
monitored by management and the 
Audit Committee.

■■ Testing of the operation of executive 
committees to provide assurance that the 
committees are operating as per their Terms 
of Reference and are effectively overseeing 
the control environment and associated 
risk management and internal control 
processes, where appropriate.

■■ A review of the key governance processes 
and principles which comprise The Barclays 
Guide to confirm that the processes have 
operated effectively.

Regular reports are made to the Board 
covering significant risks to the Barclays 
Group. The Risk Committee and the 
Reputation Committee examine reports 
covering the Principal Risks as well as reports 
on risk measurement methodologies and risk 
appetite. The Audit Committee oversees the 
control environment (and remediation of 
related issues), and assesses the adequacy 
of credit impairment. Further details of risk 
management procedures and potential risk 
factors are given in the Risk review section 
on pages 129 to 222.

Controls over financial reporting
A framework of disclosure controls and 
procedures is in place to support the approval 
of the financial statements of the Barclays 
Group. Specific governance committees are 
responsible for examining the financial reports 
and disclosures to ensure that they have been 
subject to adequate verification and comply 
with applicable standards and legislation.

These committees report their conclusions 
to the Audit Committee, which debates its 
conclusions and provides further challenge. 
Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves 
results announcements and the Barclays PLC 
annual report, and ensures that appropriate 
disclosures have been made. This governance 
process ensures that both management and 
the Board are given sufficient opportunity to 
debate and challenge the financial statements 
of the Barclays Group and other significant 
disclosures before they are made public.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 87

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Management's report on internal control 
over financial reporting
Management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control 
over financial reporting. Internal control over 
financial reporting is a process designed under 
the supervision of the principal executive and 
principal financial officers to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external reporting purposes 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. Internal control 
over financial reporting includes policies and 
procedures that pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail:
■■ Accurately and fairly reflect transactions 

and dispositions of assets.
■■ Provide reasonable assurances that 

transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS and that receipts 
and expenditures are being made only 
in accordance with authorisations of 
management and the respective Directors.

■■ Provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition 
of assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.

Internal control systems, no matter how well 
designed, have inherent limitations and may 
not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness 
to future periods are subject to the risk that 
internal controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.

Management has assessed the internal 
control over financial reporting as of 
31 December 2018. In making its assessment, 
management utilised the criteria set out in 
the 2013 COSO framework and concluded 
that, based on its assessment, the internal 
control over financial reporting was effective 
as of 31 December 2018.

The system of internal financial and 
operational controls is also subject to 
regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas. 
Further information on supervision by the 
financial services regulators is provided 
under Supervision and Regulation in the 
Risk review section on pages 215 to 222.

Changes in internal control over financial 
reporting
There have been no changes in the Barclays 
Group's internal control over financial 
reporting which have materially affected or 
are reasonably likely to materially affect the 
Barclays Group's internal control over financial 
reporting during the year. The Barclays Group 
adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2019 and has 
updated and modified certain controls over 
financial reporting as a result of the new 
accounting standard, embedding them into 
the existing control environment.

Remuneration
The Board has delegated responsibility 
for the consideration and approval of the 
remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, 
executive Directors, other senior executives 
and certain Barclays Group employees to the 
Remuneration Committee. The Board as 
a whole, with the non-executive Directors 
abstaining, considers annually the fees paid 
to non-executive Directors. Information on the 
activities of the Remuneration Committee in 
2018 can be found in the Remuneration report 
on pages 99 to 126, which forms part of this 
Governance section of the Annual Report.

Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance 
of listening to, and understanding the 
views of, our shareholders such that this 
information can be used to inform the 
Board's decision-making. 

Shareholders
The Board is committed to promoting 
effective channels of communication with 
our shareholders and upholding good 
corporate governance as a means of building 
stronger and more engaged relationships with 
them. Our comprehensive Investor Relations 
engagement with the market helps us to 
understand investor views about Barclays, 
which are communicated regularly to the 
Board. Our shareholder communication 
guidelines, which underpin all investor 
engagement, are available on our website 
at home.barclays/investorrelations.

Institutional investors
In 2018, our Investor Relations engagement 
with institutional investors took place 
throughout the year, both following our 
quarterly results as well as outside of the 
reporting cycle. We increased our level of 
engagement with shareholders year over 
year, allowing the opportunity for existing 
and potential new investors to engage with 
Barclays regularly, promoting dialogue on 
longer-term strategic developments as well 
as on the recent financial performance of 
the Barclays Group.

The Directors, in conjunction with the senior 
executive team and Investor Relations, 
participated in varied forms of engagement, 
including investor meetings, seminars and 
conferences across many geographic 
locations, reflecting the diverse nature of 
our equity and debt institutional ownership. 
In 2018, we placed greater emphasis on 
shareholder engagement with a broader 
range of divisional management presenting 
to investors, deepening understanding of 
Barclays' investment case, and promoting 
greater awareness and understanding of 
our operating businesses.

During 2018, discussions with investors 
included, but were not limited to: the improved 
operating performance of the Barclays Group 
in the first nine months post-structural 
reform; the continued digitisation of the 
Bank and ongoing investment in technology 
as well as the value being created by Barclays 
Execution Services in improving the mix and 
efficiency of our cost base. We discussed 
how these actions have, collectively, created 
the capacity for investment in growth 
opportunities, helping drive long-term 
sustainable returns for shareholders. Investors 
also discussed topics including prudent risk 
management and steps taken to mitigate 
the potential impact from the uncertainty 
surrounding Brexit, as well as ESG factors, 
our corporate and investment bank strategy, 
our valuation and capital levels.

Investor meetings focused on corporate 
governance also took place throughout the 
year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, other Board representatives and the 
Company Secretary.

We held conference calls/webcasts for our 
quarterly results briefings and an in-person 
presentation for our 2017 full year results 
in February 2018, all hosted by the Group 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
who also maintain a dialogue with investors 
throughout the year. In addition, the Group 
Finance Director held a quarterly breakfast 
briefing for sell-side analysts. For fixed income 
investors, we held conference calls at our 
full year and half year results hosted by the 
Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer. 
Following each event, a transcript of the 
discussion was uploaded to our website.

The Investor Relations section of our website 
is an important communication channel 
that enables the effective distribution of 
information to the market in a clear and 
consistent manner. Executive management 
presentations, speeches and, where possible, 
webcast replays are uploaded to our website 
on a timely basis.

Private shareholders
During 2018, we continued to communicate 
with our private shareholders through our 
shareholder mailings. Shareholders can also 
choose to sign up to Shareview so that they 
receive information about Barclays PLC and 
their shareholding directly by email. 

On a practical level, over 60,000 shareholders 
did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up 
(SNTU) cheque following the Rights Issue in 
September 2013. In 2018, we continued the 
tracing process to reunite these shareholders 
with their SNTU monies and any unclaimed 
dividends and by the end of the year, we had 
returned approximately £65,000 to our 
shareholders, in addition to approximately 
£212,000 returned in 2017, £1.65m returned 
in 2016 and £2.2m in 2015. 

<Page End><Page Start>
88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Each year we launch a Share Dealing Service 
aimed at shareholders with relatively small 
shareholdings for whom it might otherwise 
be uneconomical to deal. One option open to 
shareholders is to donate their sale proceeds 
to ShareGift. As a result of this initiative, 
£46,957 was donated in 2018, taking the 
total donated since 2015 to over £345,000.

Our AGM
The Board and the senior executive team 
continue to consider our AGM as a key date 
for shareholder engagement. The AGM 
provides us with our main opportunity to 
engage with shareholders, particularly our 
private shareholders, on the key issues facing 

the Barclays Group and any questions they 
may have. A number of Directors, including 
the Chairman, are available for informal 
discussion either before or after the meeting.

All resolutions proposed at the 2018 AGM, 
which were considered on a poll, were passed 
with votes ‘For' ranging from 88.48% to 
99.94% of the total votes cast.

The 2019 AGM will be held on Thursday 
2 May 2019 at 11.00am at the QEII Centre 
in London. The Notice of AGM can be found 
in a separate document, which is sent out at 
least 20 working days before the AGM and 
also made available at home.barclays/agm. 

Voting on the resolutions will again be by 
poll and the results will be announced 
via the Regulatory News Service and made 
available on our website on the same day. 
We encourage any shareholders who are 
unable to attend on the day to vote in 
advance of the meeting via home.barclays/
investorrelations/vote or through Shareview 
(shareview.co.uk).

For further details on how we engaged with our 
shareholders and other stakeholders in 2018, 
please refer to page 16 of the Strategic Report.

Governance reporting for 2019
Having reviewed our existing governance 
arrangements against the requirements 
of The New Code and The Regulations, 
and industry best practice, a number of 
amendments to documentation and certain 
enhancements to practices have already 
been implemented. Changes to the Charter 
of Expectations, the Board's Schedule 
of Matters Reserved, and each Board 
Committee's terms of reference have 
been effected. Enhancements to practices, 
including but not limited to the below, 
either have been or will be implemented 
during 2019 and we will report against 
The New Code in our next Annual Report.

Board composition. As mentioned above, 
Directors are now obliged to obtain pre-
clearance prior to taking on any additional 
commitments, including but not limited to 
directorships, and to indicate in the clearance 
request the likely time commitment involved. 
This will help to ensure that Directors allocate 
sufficient time to their role on the Board and 
discharge their responsibilities effectively.

Culture. Our code of conduct, The Barclays 
Way, provides a clear path towards achieving 
a dynamic and positive culture within the 
Barclays Group, outlining our common 
purpose – Creating Opportunities to Rise – 
and values, which govern our way of 
working. The Barclays Way, and Barclays' 
Purpose and Values, will be reviewed by the 
Board annually. The Board already receives 
regular reports on the alignment of Barclays' 
culture with its purpose, values and strategy, 
but will also start receiving annual thematic 
updates as to workforce policies and their 
alignment with our purpose, values and 
strategy. To the extent that the Board takes 
any action with regard to culture during the 
course of a year, this will be explained in the 
relevant Annual Report.

Stakeholder engagement. From next year, 
the annual report will include disclosures as 
to how the Directors have discharged their 
duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 
2006 and how the interests of customers 
and clients, colleagues, suppliers and other 
stakeholders have informed the Board's 
decision-making.

The Barclays Group has a long-standing 
commitment to the importance and value 
of colleague engagement. It is colleagues 
that drive our success. You can read more 
about our commitment to colleagues in the 
‘Our culture and people'  section on page 11. 
As part of this long-standing commitment, 
senior management developed an extensive 
engagement matrix. Consequently, there are 
a number of existing channels for engagement 
with colleagues and for ensuring that the 
Board is made aware of views expressed. 
This engagement matrix with colleagues 
includes multi-channel communications, 
town halls and question and answer sessions, 
country and site visits, ex officio committee 
memberships, Your View surveys, focus 
groups, mentoring programmes, talent 
programmes, Diversity and Inclusion 
programmes, the Well-being programme, 
and workforce change engagement.

We have an established partnership approach 
to industrial relations. In the UK, we have 
a formal Partnership with Unite which has 
been in place for over 18 years. In Europe, 
we have a consultation forum (European 
Works Council) known as the Barclays Group 
European Forum. Through these partnerships, 
and at individual country level with local 
recognised trade unions and works councils, 
we consult regularly on a wide range 
of topics.

In 2018, an all-colleague Your View survey 
was conducted. The effectiveness of our 
existing colleague engagement mechanisms 
was reflected in a 79% sustainable 
engagement score. The results of the survey 
were presented to senior management, and 
used as one of a number of inputs to inform 
overall colleague engagement and progress 
with embedding our desired culture.

The Barclays Group has established 
mechanisms in place to report to the Board. 
In particular, the Board receives qualitative and 
quantitative feedback on matters of interest 
to colleagues through the Culture Dashboard, 
which measures and tracks our progress in 
embedding the desired culture, talent and 
succession updates, Diversity and Inclusion 
updates, periodic engagement updates 

and the results of the Your View surveys 
(including the survey conducted in 2018).

In addition to the Culture Dashboard and 
Your View, we plan to introduce further 
qualitative mechanisms – including the 
establishment of regional focus groups, 
and obtaining formal feedback on core topics 
from Unite and the Barclays Group European 
Forum – to enhance the information that 
is already gathered.

In relation to understanding other 
stakeholders' views, the impact of our 
behaviour and business on customers 
and clients, colleagues and society is 
monitored by the Board with support from 
the Reputation Committee, which tracks 
key indicators across the areas of culture, 
citizenship, conduct, and customer and client 
satisfaction on an ongoing basis. In 2018, 
we built on conversations started at the 
AGM to engage in a continual dialogue 
with NGOs and other interest groups, to 
improve our understanding of emerging and 
existing environmental and societal topics. 
Throughout the year, we regularly engaged 
with these stakeholders through participation 
in forums and round tables and joined 
industry, sector and topic debates and this 
will continue in 2019.

Remuneration. Following changes to 
the Remuneration Committee's terms 
of reference, the Remuneration Committee 
now has responsibility for reviewing 
workforce remuneration and related policies, 
ensuring the alignment of incentives and 
rewards with culture, and ensuring that 
these matters are taken into account when 
considering and approving the remuneration 
arrangements of the executive Directors. 
It is proposed that the Remuneration 
Committee report to the Board on these 
matters in order to further support the 
Board in satisfying its obligation to assess 
and monitor culture. Next year's Annual 
Report will include an enhanced Directors' 
remuneration report and a summary 
of any discretion that has been exercised 
in the award of Director remuneration.

How we comply
Governance: Directors' report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 89

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Other statutory information
Governance: Directors' report

Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 
requires the Directors to present a Strategic 
report in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. The information can be found 
on pages 2 to 39. 

The Company has chosen, in accordance with 
section 414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006, 
and as noted in this Directors' report, to 
include certain matters in its Strategic report 
that would otherwise be disclosed in this 
Directors' report.

An indication of likely future developments 
may be found in the Strategic report.

The particulars of important events affecting 
the Company since the financial year end can 
be found in the Strategic report and Note 27, 
Legal, competition and regulatory matters.

Profit and dividends 
Statutory profit after tax for 2018 was 
£2,372m (2017: loss £894m). The 2018 full 
year dividend of 4.0p per share will be paid 
on 5 April 2019 to shareholders whose names 
are on the Register of Members at the close 
of business on 1 March 2019. With the 2018 
half year dividend totalling 2.5p per ordinary 
share, paid in September 2018, the total 
distribution for 2018 is 6.5p (2017: 3.0p) per 
ordinary share. The half year and full year 
dividends for 2018 amounted to £768m 
(2017: £509m).

Shareholders may have their dividends 
reinvested in Barclays by joining the 
Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme 
(the Programme). The Programme enables 
shareholders, if they wish, to receive new 
fully-paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC 
instead of a cash dividend, without incurring 
dealing costs or stamp duty.

The nominee company of certain Barclays' 
employee benefit trusts holding shares in 
Barclays in connection with the operation 
of the Company's share plans has lodged 
evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by 
it that have not been allocated to employees. 
The total amount of dividends waived during 
the year ended 31 December 2018 was 
£0.85m (2017: £0.68m).

Barclays understands the importance of 
the ordinary dividend for our shareholders. 
Barclays is therefore committed to maintaining 
an appropriate balance between total cash 
returns to shareholders, investing in the 
business, and maintaining a strong capital 
position. Going forward, Barclays intends 
to pay an annual ordinary dividend that 
takes into account these objectives, and 
the medium-term earnings outlook of the 
Barclays Group. It is also the Board's intention 
to supplement the ordinary dividends with 
additional returns to shareholders as and 
when appropriate.

The Board notes that in determining any 
proposed distributions to shareholders, 
the Board will consider the expectation 
of servicing more senior securities.

Board of Directors 
The names of the current Directors of Barclays 
PLC, along with their biographical details, are set 
out on pages 51 and 52 and are incorporated 
into this report by reference. Changes to 
Directors during the year are set out below.

Name Role

Effective date of 
appointment/
resignation

Mike Turner Non-executive 
Director

Appointed 
1 January 2018

Mary Anne 
Citrino

Non-executive 
Director

Appointed 
25 July 2018

Appointment and retirement of Directors 
The appointment and retirement of Directors 
is governed by the Company's Articles of 
Association (the Articles), The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2016 (The Code), the 
Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.

The Articles may only be amended by a special 
resolution of the shareholders. The Board has 
the power to appoint additional Directors or 
to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors. 
Any such Director holds office only until the 
next AGM and may offer himself/herself for 
re-election. The Code recommends that all 
Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be 
subject to annual re-election. All Directors will 
stand for election or re-election at the 2019 
AGM with the exception of Reuben Jeffery III 
and Dambisa Moyo who, having served on the 
Board for nine years, will both be retiring from 
the Board at this year's AGM.

Directors' indemnities 
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
(as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006) were in force during the course of 
the financial year ended 31 December 2018 for 
the benefit of the then Directors and, at the 
date of this report, are in force for the benefit 
of the Directors in relation to certain losses 
and liabilities which they may incur (or have 
incurred) in connection with their duties, 
powers or office. In addition, the Company 
maintains Directors' & Officers' Liability 
Insurance which gives appropriate cover for 
legal action brought against its Directors.

Qualifying pension scheme indemnity 
provisions (as defined by section 235 of the 
Companies Act 2006) were in force during 
the course of the financial year ended 
31 December 2018 for the benefit of the then 
Directors, and at the date of this report are in 
force for the benefit of Directors of Barclays 
Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee 
of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund. 
The Directors of the Trustee are indemnified 
against liability incurred in connection with 
the Company's activities as Trustee of the 
Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.

Similarly, qualifying pension scheme 
indemnities were in force during 2018 for 
the benefit of Directors of Barclays Executive 
Schemes Trustees Limited as Trustee of 
Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia 
Staff Pension Fund (1965), Barclays Capital 
International Pension Scheme (No.1), and 
Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement 
Benefits Scheme. The Directors of the Trustee 
are indemnified against liability incurred in 

The Directors present their report together with the  
audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors' report, and which is incorporated 
by reference into this report, can be located as follows:

Page

Employee involvement 93

Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 96

Financial instruments 283

Hedge accounting policy 287

Remuneration policy, including details of the remuneration of each Director 
and Directors' interests in shares 99

Corporate governance report 47

Risk review 127

Viability statement 42

Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4R can be found on the following pages:

Page

Long-term incentive schemes 110

Waiver of Director emoluments 123

Allotment for cash of equity securities 326

Waiver of dividends 89

<Page End><Page Start>
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Other statutory information
Governance: Directors' report

connection with the Company's activities as 
Trustee of the schemes above. 

Political donations 
The Barclays Group did not give any money 
for political purposes in the UK, the rest of the 
EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any 
political donations to political parties or other 
political organisations, or to any independent 
election candidates, or incur any political 
expenditure during the year.

In accordance with the US Federal 
Election Campaign Act, Barclays provides 
administrative support to a federal Political 
Action Committee (PAC) in the US funded 
by the voluntary political contributions of 
eligible employees. The PAC is not controlled 
by Barclays and all decisions regarding the 
amounts and recipients of contributions are 
directed by a steering committee comprising 
employees eligible to contribute to the PAC. 
Contributions to political organisations 
reported by the PAC during the calendar 
year 2018 totalled $140,000 (2017: $67,250).

Environment 
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental 
issues where we believe we have the greatest 
potential to make a difference. We focus 
on managing our own carbon footprint and 
reducing our absolute carbon emissions; 
developing products and services to help 
enable the transition to a low-carbon 
economy, and managing the risks of climate 
change to our operations, clients, customers 
and society at large.

We invest in improving the energy efficiency 
of our operations and offset the emissions 
remaining through the purchase of carbon 
credits. We also have a long-standing 
commitment to managing the environmental 
and social risks associated with our lending 
practices, which is embedded into our Credit 
Risk processes. A governance structure is in 
place to facilitate clear dialogue across the 
business and with suppliers around issues 
of potential environmental and social risk.

We have disclosed global greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG) that we are responsible 
for as set out by the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors' Report) 
Regulations 2013. We provide fuller disclosure 
on (i) financing solutions for the lower carbon 
economy, (ii) environmental risk management 
and (iii) management of our carbon and 
environmental footprint in the Barclays 
Environmental Social Governance (ESG) 
Report available on our website at home.
barclays.com/citizenship. We have also 
provided initial disclosures aligned with 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures in the Strategic report and 
ESG report.

Current 
reporting

yeara
2018

Previous
reporting

year 
2017 

Previous
reporting

year
2016

Previous
reporting

year
2015

Global Greenhouse Gas Emissionsb

Total CO2e (tonnes) 292,151 344,816 401,340 469,502
Scope 1 CO2e emissions (tonnes)c 25,553 24,779 26,814 29,146
Scope 2 CO2e emissions (tonnes)d 197,365 249,396 307,190 341,978
Scope 3 CO2e emissions (tonnes)e 69,233 70,641 67,337 98,379
Intensity Ratio 
Total Full Time Employees (FTE) 83,500 79,900 119,300 85,800
Total CO2e per FTE (tonnes)f 3.50 4.32 3.36 5.47
Scope 2 CO2e market based emissions (tonnes)d 249,294 297,128 326,201

Notes
a  The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September. The carbon reporting year is not 

fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors' report.
b The methodology used to calculate our GHG is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). A Corporate Accounting 

and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, defined by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (ERI/WBCSD). We have adopted the operational control approach on reporting 
boundaries to define our reporting boundary. Where properties are covered by Barclays' consolidated financial 
statements but are leased to tenants, these emissions are not included in the Barclays Group GHG calculations. 
Where Barclays is responsible for the utility costs, these emissions are included. We continuously review and update 
our perfomrnce data based on updated carbon emmissions factors, improvements in data quality and updates to 
estimates previously applied. For 2019 we have applied the latest DEFRA and IE emmission factors. Where our 
performance has changed by more than 1% we have restated the balances and baseline. Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 
previously reported for 2015, 2016 and 2017 are 479,934, 402,531 and 347,165 respectively.

 On 1 June 2017, we completed the sale of a 33.7% stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL) resulting in a 
non-controlling position. In 2017, we restated our CHG emissions through the 2015 baseline to account for this and 
BAGL emissions are not reported from 2015 onwards in order to ensure accurate tracking against our 30% carbon 
reduction commitment. In addition, we have restated our Scope 3 emissions to remove erroneous air data which 
was identified as part of 2018 reporting process.

c Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles (from the UK only, which is the most material 
contributor). Fugitive emissions reported in Scope 1 cover emissions from the UK, Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe. 

d  Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use. Market-based emissions have been 
reported for 2018, 2017 and 2016 only.

e  Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel (global flights and ground transport from the UK, USA 
and India. USA and India ground transport covers onwards car hire only which has been provided directly by the 
supplier). Ground transportation data (excluding Scope 1 company cars) covers only countries where robust data 
is available directly from the supplier.

f Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location-based emission factors only.

Research and development 
In the ordinary course of business, the 
Barclays Group develops new products and 
services in each of its business divisions.

Share capital 
Share capital structure
The Company has ordinary shares in issue. 
The Company's Articles also allow for the 
issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen 
preference shares (together, preference 
shares). No preference shares have been 
issued as at 19 February 2019 (the latest 
practicable date for inclusion in this report). 
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% 
of the total issued share capital as at 
31 December 2018 and as at 19 February 2019 
(the latest practicable date for inclusion in this 
report).

Details of the movement in ordinary share 
capital during the year can be found in Note 
29 on page 326.

Voting
Every member who is present in person or 
represented at any general meeting of the 
Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one 
vote on a show of hands. Every proxy present 
has one vote. The proxy will have one vote for 
and one vote against a resolution if he/she 
has been instructed to vote for or against the 
resolution by different members or in one 
direction by a member while another member 
has permitted the proxy discretion as to how 
to vote. 

On a poll, every member who is present or 
represented and who is entitled to vote has 
one vote for every share held. In the case 
of joint holders, only the vote of the senior 
holder (as determined by order in the share 
register) or his/her proxy may be counted. 
If any sum payable remains unpaid in 
relation to a member's shareholding, that 
member is not entitled to vote that share 
or exercise any other right in relation to 
a meeting of the Company unless the Board 
otherwise determines.

If any member, or any other person appearing 
to be interested in any of the Company's 
ordinary shares, is served with a notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 
and does not supply the Company with the 
information required in the notice, then the 
Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct 
that that member shall not be entitled to 
attend or vote at any meeting of the Company. 
The Board may further direct that if the shares 
of the defaulting member represent 0.25% 
or more of the issued shares of the relevant 
class, that dividends or other monies payable 
on those shares shall be retained by the 
Company until the direction ceases to have 
effect and that no transfer of those shares 
shall be registered (other than certain 
specified ‘excepted transfers'). A direction 
ceases to have effect seven days after the 
Company has received the information 
requested, or when the Company is notified 
that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant 
shares to a third party has occurred, or as 
the Board otherwise determines.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 91

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Transfers 
Ordinary shares may be held in either 
certificated or uncertificated form. Certificated 
ordinary shares may be transferred in writing 
in any usual or other form approved by the 
Company Secretary and executed by or 
on behalf of the transferor. Transfers of 
uncertificated ordinary shares must be made 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and CREST Regulations.

The Board is not bound to register a transfer 
of partly-paid ordinary shares or fully-paid 
shares in exceptional circumstances approved 
by the FCA. The Board may also decline to 
register an instrument of transfer of certificated 
ordinary shares unless it is (i) duly stamped, 
deposited at the prescribed place and 
accompanied by the share certificate(s) and 
such other evidence as reasonably required by 
the Board to evidence right to transfer, (ii) it 
is in respect of one class of shares only, and 
(iii) it is in favour of a single transferee or not 
more than four joint transferees (except in the 
case of executors or trustees of a member). 

In accordance with the provisions of Section 
84 of the Small Business, Enterprise and 
Employment Act 2015, preference shares may 
only be issued in registered form. Preference 
shares shall be transferred in writing in any 
usual or other form approved by the Company 
Secretary and executed by or on behalf of the 
transferor. The Company's registrar shall 
register such transfers of preference shares by 
making the appropriate entries in the register 
of preference shares. Each preference share 
shall confer, in the event of a winding up or 
any return of capital by reduction of capital 
(other than, unless otherwise provided by 
their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase 
by the Company of any of its issued shares, 
or a reduction of share capital), the right 
to receive out of the surplus assets of the 
Company available for distribution amongst 
the members and in priority to the holders 
of the ordinary shares and any other shares 
in the Company ranking junior to the relevant 
series of preference shares and pari passu 
with any other class of preference shares 
(other than any class of shares then in issue 
ranking in priority to the relevant series of 
preference shares), repayment of the amount 
paid up or treated as paid up in respect of 
the nominal value of the preference share 
together with any premium which was paid 
or treated as paid when the preference share 
was issued in addition to an amount equal to 
accrued and unpaid dividends.

Variation of rights 
The rights attached to any class of shares may 
be varied either with the consent in writing 
of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class, or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a 
separate meeting of the holders of the shares 
of that class. The rights of shares shall not 
(unless expressly provided by the rights 
attached to such shares) be deemed varied by 
the creation of further shares ranking equally 
with them or subsequent to them.

Limitations on foreign shareholders 
There are no restrictions imposed by the 
Articles of Association or (subject to the effect 
of any economic sanctions that may be in 
force from time to time) by current UK laws 
which relate only to non-residents of the UK 
and which limit the rights of such non-
residents to hold or (when entitled to do so) 
vote the ordinary shares.

Exercisability of rights under an employee 
share scheme 
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) operate in 
connection with certain of the Barclays 
Group's Employee Share Plans (Plans). The 
trustees of the EBTs may exercise all rights 
attached to the shares in accordance with 
their fiduciary duties other than as specifically 
restricted in the relevant Plan governing 
documents. The trustees of the EBTs have 
informed the Company that their normal 
policy is to abstain from voting in respect of 
the Barclays shares held in trust. The trustees 
of the Global Sharepurchase EBT and UK 
Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect 
of Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only 
as instructed by participants in those Plans 
in respect of their partnership shares and 
(when vested) matching and dividend shares. 
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect 
of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs. 

Special rights
There are no persons holding securities that 
carry special rights with regard to the control 
of the Company. 

Major shareholders
Major shareholders do not have different 
voting rights from those of other shareholders. 
Information provided to the Company by 
substantial shareholders pursuant to the FCA's 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
are published via a Regulatory Information 
Service and is available on the Company's 
website. As at 31 December 2018, the 
Company had been notified under Rule 5 
of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules of the holdings of voting rights in its 
shares set out below.

Person 
interested

Number of 
Barclays 

shares

% of total 
voting 
rights 

attaching 
to issued 

share 
capitala

Nature of 
holding 

(direct or 
indirect)

The Capital 
Group 
Companies 
Incb 1,172,090,125 6.84 indirect
Qatar 
Holding 
LLCc 1,017,455,690 5.40 direct
BlackRock, 
Incd 1,018,388,143 5.94 indirect
Sherborne 
Investorse 923,787,634 5.39 indirect
Norges 
Bank 514,068,594 3.00 direct

Notes
a  The percentage of voting rights detailed above was 

calculated at the time of the relevant disclosures made 
in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules.

b  The Capital Group Companies Inc (CG) holds its shares 
via CG Management companies and funds. Part of the 
CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. 
On 14 February 2019, CG disclosed by way of a 
Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial ownership 
of 277,002,140 ordinary shares of the Company as 
of 31 December 2018, representing 1.6% of that class 
of shares.

c  Qatar Holding LLC (QH) is wholly-owned by Qatar 
Investment Authority. 

d  Total shown includes 8,879,783 contracts for 
difference to which voting rights are attached. Part of 
the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. 
On 4 February 2019, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way 
of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC beneficial 
ownership of 1,119,810,169 ordinary shares of the 
Company as of 31 December 2018, representing 6.5% 
of that class of shares. 

e  We understand from disclosures that the Sherborne 
Shares are held via three funds ultimately controlled 
by Edward Bramson and Stephen Welker in their 
capacity as managing directors of Sherborne Investors 
Management GP, LLC (Sherborne Management GP) 
and Sherborne Investors GP, LLC. Sherborne 
Management GP is the general partner of Sherborne 
Investors Management LP (Sherborne Investors) which 
is the investment manager to two of the funds, Whistle 
Investors LLC and Whistle Investors II LLC.  Sherborne 
Investors Management (Guernsey) LLC, the 
investment manager to the third fund, SIGC, LP, is 
wholly owned by Sherborne Investors. On 8 February 
2019, Sherborne Investors disclosed by way of a 
Schedule 13D filed with the SEC beneficial ownership 
of 943,949,089 ordinary shares of the Company as of 
29 January 2019, representing approximately 5.5% of 
that class of shares. Such Schedule 13D also disclosed 
Edward Bramson and Stephen Welker as the ultimate 
deemed beneficial owners of the Sherborne Shares 
and that 505,086,254 of such shares were purchased 
through funded derivative transactions.

Between 31 December 2018 and 19 February 
2019 (the latest practicable date for inclusion 
in this report), the Company was notified that 
Norges Bank now holds 509,562,903 Barclays 
shares, representing 2.97% of the total voting 
rights attached to the issued share capital 
and that Sherborne now holds 943,949,089 
Barclays shares, representing approximately 
5.5% of the total voting rights attached to the 
issued share capital.

<Page End><Page Start>
92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Powers of Directors to issue or buy back 
the Company's shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by 
the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's 
Articles. The Directors are authorised to issue 
and allot shares and to buy back shares subject 
to annual shareholder approval at the AGM. 
Such authorities were granted by shareholders 
at the 2018 AGM. It will be proposed at the 
2019 AGM that the Directors be granted new 
authorities to allot and buy back shares.

Repurchase of shares
The Company did not repurchase any of its 
ordinary shares during 2018 (2017: none). 
As at 19 February 2019 (the latest practicable 
date for inclusion in this report) the Company 
had an unexpired authority to repurchase 
ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,706m 
ordinary shares. 

Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2018, the distributable 
reserves of Barclays PLC (the parent company) 
were £5,282m.

Following announcement of its intention to 
carry out a capital reorganisation to convert 
the share premium account of Barclays PLC 
into distributable reserves and subsequent 
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting on 1 May 2018, this was undertaken 
by way of a court-approved capital reduction. 
On 11 September 2018, the capital reduction 
became effective following confirmation of 
the High Court of Justice in England and Wales 
that the share premium account had been 
cancelled, with the balance of £17,873m being 
credited to retained earnings.

On filing of the 2018 Annual Report, the 
distributable reserves of Barclays PLC would 
be £24,471m taking into consideration the 
cancellation of share premium account and 
other movements in reserves for the year.

Change of control
There are no significant agreements to which 
the Company is a party that are affected by 
a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. There are no agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for 
loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.

Going concern 
The Barclays Group's business activities, 
financial position, capital, factors likely to 
affect its future development and performance 
and its objectives and policies in managing 
the financial risks to which it is exposed are 
discussed in the Strategic report and Risk 
review and Risk management sections.

The Directors considered it appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements on a going 
concern basis.

In preparing each of the Barclays Group and 
Parent company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
■■ assess the Barclays Group and Parent 

company's ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern; and

■■ use the going concern basis of accounting 
unless they either intend to liquidate the 
Barclays Group or the Parent company 
or to cease operations, or have no realistic 
alternative but to do so.

Disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company's auditors are unaware 
and that each of the Directors has taken all 
the steps that he/she ought to have taken as 
a Director to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company's auditors are aware of 
that information. This confirmation is given 
pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 
2006 and should be interpreted in accordance 
with and subject to those provisions.

Directors' responsibilities 
The following statement, which should be 
read in conjunction with the Auditor's report 
set out on page 248 to 255, is made with 
a view to distinguishing for shareholders the 
respective responsibilities of the Directors and 
of the auditors in relation to the accounts. 

The Directors are required by the Companies 
Act 2006 to prepare Group and Company 
accounts for each financial year and, with 
regards to Group accounts, in accordance 
with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The 
Directors have prepared Group and Company 
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU. Under the Companies Act 2006, 
the Directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Barclays Group and the Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.

The Directors consider that, in preparing the 
financial statements the Barclays Group and 
Company has used appropriate accounting 
policies, supported by reasonable judgements 
and estimates, and that all accounting 
standards which they consider to be 
applicable have been followed.

Having taken all the matters considered by 
the Board and brought to the attention of 
the Board during the year into account, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable, and 
provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Barclays Group 
and Company's position and performance, 
business model and strategy.

Directors are responsible for such internal 
control as they determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements 
that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

Directors' responsibility statement 
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring 
that the Company and the Barclays Group 
keep accounting records which disclose 
with reasonable accuracy the financial 
position of the Company and the Barclays 
Group and which enable them to ensure 
that the accounts comply with the Companies 
Act 2006.

The Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors' report, 
Directors' remuneration report and Corporate 
governance statement in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 

The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Annual 
Report and financial statements as they 
appear on the Company's website. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

The Directors have a general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Barclays 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.

The Directors, whose names and functions 
are set out on pages 51 and 52, confirm to the 
best of their knowledge that:

(a)  the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and

(b)  the management report, on pages 5 to 39, 
which is incorporated in the Directors' 
report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face.

By order of the Board 

Stephen Shapiro
Company Secretary 
20 February 2019 

Registered in England. 
Company No. 48839 

Other statutory information
Governance: Directors' report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 93

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

People
Governance: People

Career opportunities
We aspire to be the most accessible, inclusive 
and sought after employer. Attracting new 
talent into the organisation remains key to our 
success, demonstrated through the continued 
growth of newer strategic locations and 
world-class campuses (Glasgow, Whippany, 
North West UK and Pune). Our Early Careers 
programmes recruited 1,100 interns, 800 
graduates, and over 530 apprenticeships in 
2018. These varied entry points help provide 
pathways for progression supported by 
recognised qualifications and, in doing so, 
help to create an internal talent pipeline.

The Encore! programme has run globally 
in selected locations and has been a lever 
to encourage talented women returners 
to Barclays. All Encore! fellows are provided 
with support sessions to assist with their 
acclimatisation back into the workforce and 
Barclays intends to broaden the programme 
to continue to enhance our diversity, inclusion 
and location strategies with more sites 
offering the programme.

The Barclays Global Alumni Programme helps 
colleagues to stay connected to Barclays and 
to other alumni. Membership has grown to 
over 7,000 since the programme launched in 
2014 and we have a thriving, networked global 
community with members receiving monthly 
e-newsletters, invitations to events, updates 
about career opportunities and access to 
Barclays Insights as part of their membership.

Our ‘Able to Enable' programme provides 
a platform for candidates with disabilities, 
allowing us to provide more tailored support 
for them to enter the workforce through 
our apprentice channels. Multigenerational 
opportunities have also been opened through 
our Bolder Apprentice Programme. More 
broadly, we have policies and practices in 
place to ensure that all recruitment decisions 
are fair and candidate shortlists are diverse.

Once on board, we have created multiple tools 
and resources for colleagues at all levels to 
find internal career opportunities and for 
managers to find and assess suitable internal 
candidates. In 2018 37% of our roles were 
filled by internal candidates.

Learning, development and talent 
management
Advancements have been made in our 
approach to learning throughout 2018, 
with a focus on systems and processes as 
well as content. This included launching new 
digital channels and working in conjunction 
with industry-leading partners to keep 
improving and updating our skills based 
learning solutions.

We remain focused on identifying talent based 
on objective assessment. We develop our 
successors and ensure that we have a strong 
pipeline of internal talent with the potential to 
step into critical roles in the future. Ex officio 
positions on the Group Executive Committee 
and across the business unit and functional 
Executive Committees provided further 
development and exposure for senior leaders 
and allowed the leadership teams to work 
closely with talented colleagues who have 
brought new ideas and diverse perspectives 
to the table. 

Four Enterprise Leaders Summits across 
London and New York provided 135 senior 
leaders from Barclays International, Barclays 
UK and Barclays Execution Services with 
an opportunity to further broaden their 
understanding of our business beyond their 
business area and function and to develop 
an enterprise mind-set. 

This year we also hosted a Women Managing 
Directors Forum for c.130 senior female 
leaders from across the Bank who convened 
in London in October 2018 to create an 
engaged and mutually supportive global 
community of senior female leaders at 
Barclays and to inspire further actions to 
accelerate gender diversity. 

Industrial relations and workforce
Barclays places great importance on our 
constructive approach to global employee 
and industrial relations. During 2018 we 
continued to work with Unite, our recognised 
trade union in the UK and with nine other 
unions and staff associations directly or 
through works councils internationally. In 
the UK, we consulted extensively with Unite 
on a wide range of restructuring proposals 
and in respect of changes to compensation 
structures. Our shared aim where there 
is restructuring – consistent with our 
partnership approach to industrial relations – 
is to minimise compulsory job losses wherever 
possible. This is achieved through voluntary 
redundancy and extensive redeployment 
processes and arrangements. 

In Europe we held regular consultations with 
our European Works Council (the Barclays 
Group European Forum) on a wide range of 
topics including transnational restructuring 
proposals, in addition to local consultation 
with in-country works councils. All colleagues 
who are displaced as a result of restructuring 
are offered career transition support. In 2018 
c.900 colleagues were supported globally 
(a take-up rate of over 80% of those impacted 
by restructuring), with over 95% satisfied with 
the career transition support provided.

Performance management
Effective performance management underpins 
our values-based culture. To support our 
success, colleagues align their objectives to 
business and team goals, this is ‘what' they 
will deliver. Behavioural expectations are set 
in the context of our values, this is ‘how' they 
will achieve their objectives. We encourage 
connected performance conversations 
throughout the year and we continue to run 
our global recognition programme to recognise 
the achievements of those who have 
demonstrated our values in the workplace.

Colleagues are also encouraged to be 
involved with the Company's performance 
by participating in our all-employee share 
plans, which have been running successfully 
for over 10 years.

Employee communications
Barclays regularly updates employees on the 
financial and economic factors affecting the 
Company's performance and the delivery of 
the strategy through Barclays Group CEO and 
senior leader communications, line manager 
briefing packs, infographics, videos, interviews 
and talking points distributed to employees 
every quarter in accordance with our financial 
reporting calendar.

We also hold a variety of events for employees 
so they can hear directly from the Group 
Executive Committee and employees are 
kept regularly informed about what is 
happening in their area and across Barclays 
through regular local engagement initiatives 
and communications that allow for discussion 
and build awareness and understanding. 
Campaigns and colleague stories throughout 
the year bring to life how we are living 
Barclays' Purpose, ‘Creating opportunities 
to rise' and Values: Respect, Integrity, Service, 
Excellence and Stewardship on a daily basis, 
providing ongoing evidence of how we are 
supporting our colleagues, customers and 
clients and the communities and societies 
in which we work.

As highlighted in ‘Our culture and people' 
on page 11, we continue to make progress 
towards increasing the diversity of our 
workforce underpinned by an inclusive 
culture and engaged employees. This 
section provides an overview of some 
of the programmes, initiatives and ways 
in which we are supporting our colleagues, 
which in turn enables us to support our 
customers, clients and the community.

<Page End><Page Start>
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

People
Governance: People

Be Well – Barclays well-being programme
Barclays global wellbeing programme 
‘Be Well' has focused on two key areas in 
2018; a refreshed commitment to make 
Barclays a ‘mental health confident' 
organisation, further development of our 
supportive culture and the implementation 
of new global digital infrastructure as the 
gateway to the programme.

The mental health confident agenda has 
worked to address both the stigma that can 
prevent open conversations about mental 
health – building on Barclays ‘This is Me' 
programme – while developing colleagues' 
capability to understand, identify and take 
appropriate action where others need help. 
The global launch campaign involved a film 
of senior leaders and Board members sharing 
their personal reflections on mental health 
issues and the important role that support 
from colleagues can play in helping others. 
The call to action to colleagues was to 
become mental health confident themselves 
by completing new online development 
programmes on ‘mental health awareness' 
and ‘mental health confident'. By year end 
over 16,000 colleagues had completed 
‘awareness' and c.3,500 had completed 
the ‘confident' module.

85% of colleagues already feel that their line 
manager takes a sincere interest in their 
well-being according to the 2018 Your View 
survey. To help translate this consistently into 
practical action, a new guide ‘Leading our 
supportive culture' was launched in November 
for managers, addressing key scenarios and 
the range of supportive actions that they 
can take.

The launch in November of a new global 
Be Well portal and online health check has 
provided access to all Barclays well-being 
content and support in one place. The portal 
incorporates an interactive health check tool 
which targets content in the portal according 
to colleagues' identified health risks. 

Diversity and inclusion 
We aim to ensure that Barclays is a workplace 
where everyone is valued as an individual and 
feels welcomed, respected, supported and 
able to be their authentic selves. Working in 
an inclusive environment provides employees 
with the opportunity to rise. Our global 
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy 
establishes objectives, initiatives and plans 
across five core agendas: disability, gender, 
LGBT+, multicultural, and multigenerational.

We are proud of the recognition we have 
received this year for our diversity and 
inclusion efforts, including: 
■■ The Times Top 50 Employers for Women 

2018
■■ Stonewall Top Global Employer for LGBT 

employees, 2018
■■ Working Families UK Best for Embedded 

flexibility for Dynamic Working, 2018
■■ UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, 

2018
■■ Department of Work and Pensions Disability 

Confident Leader, 2017 to 2020
■■ Business in the Community Best Employer 

for Race 2018.

This year 91% of colleagues reported through 
our Your View engagement survey that they 
feel able to bring their whole selves to work 
reflecting our progress in our diversity and 
inclusion agenda.

To help ensure all employees at Barclays have 
the support and environment to succeed, 
we have seven employee diversity networks. 

These networks provide a forum for 
employees to raise awareness of various 
challenges and initiatives, engage in 
development opportunities and to build 
relationships with colleagues across Barclays 
and with external constituents in the 
communities where we operate. Every network 
is open to all employees who wish to support 
the firm in accomplishing its diversity goals 
and creating an inclusive culture.

Gender
Barclays remains focused on improving 
gender diversity through a workplace 
environment and culture that supports and 
empowers women. We also have a keen 
focus on the gender diversity of our senior 
leadership and have established ambitions 
on gender diversity from our Board of 
Directors to our graduate population, 
partnering with the Hampton Alexander 
Review and HM Treasury Finance Charter 
to encourage progress across the Financial 
Services industry. Our commitment to 
improving the gender diversity of the 
leadership at Barclays is being supported 
by an integrated talent management lead 
approach which includes data monitoring, 
sponsorship and development programmes 
and our Win Gender Network, all intended to 
enhance our ability to achieve our ambitions.

Internally we are committed to:

Leadership accountability 
including gender diversity 
targets and the introduction 
of a gender task force

Focusing on a more inclusive 
work environment to ensure 
all colleagues have the 
flexibility to achieve personal 
and professional goals

Ensuring we are developing 
leaders who are equipped to 
meet the demands of a more 
diverse workforce

2020 Gender diversity commitments
■■ Board of Directors 33%
■■ Leadership 33% (Group ExCo and their direct reports)

Cultural change
■■ Dynamic Working
■■ Progressive parental policies
■■ Barclays' Win Gender Network

Talent management
■■ Leadership succession planning
■■ Ex officio leadership roles
■■ Internal mobility

Leadership development
■■ Unconscious bias training
■■ Global Women in Leadership Conference
■■ Enterprise Leaders summits

Externally we are committed to:

Engaging men globally in 
gender equality in partnership 
with the United Nations

Providing enhanced 
employment opportunities 
and attracting diverse 
candidates

Community impact

UN HeForShe
■■ Global Impact Champion

Barclays role models
■■ External engagement of Barclays' senior women  

across Financial Services, IT and STEM

Creating new career opportunities
■■ Encore! Returnship Programme
■■ Expanded Apprenticeship Programme
■■ 50% female graduate hires

Strategic partnerships
■■ Women's Business Council
■■ 30% Club

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 95

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

At the end of 2018 the female representation 
across our Board of Directors was 27%; 
female representation among the Group 
Executive Committee and their direct reports 
was 28% and the percentage of female 
Managing Directors and Directors stood at 
24%. We first made a commitment in our 
2013 Annual Report that we would aim 
to increase the percentage of women at 
Managing Director and Director levels from 
21% to 26% by 2018.

That was a stretching goal, which acted 
as a catalyst for significantly increased focus 
on gender diversity at Barclays, including 
important changes like dynamic working. 
But the reality is, disappointingly, that we 
missed the target despite our best efforts. 
One of the principal reasons for us missing 
this target was due to the divestment of the 
Africa business which reduced our year-on-
year progress by 2 percentage points.

We do still believe, however, that targets 
are an effective way to drive and track our 
progress. They give us an unambiguous 
measure of our success, and they make us 
focus on what makes the biggest difference 
most quickly. So we are setting ourselves 
a target of 28% female Managing Directors 
and Directors by the end of 2021.

The Performance Measurement Framework, 
which is tied to senior management's 
compensation, ensures that we are managing 
Barclays in the interests of all our stakeholders 
– including employees. The 28% target will 
be included as part of that framework and we 
will hold each other accountable for it through 
monthly business reviews at the Group 
Executive Committee. Each of the Group 
Executive Committee members will also have 
their own actions, specific to the context in 
which their business operates.

To better align how we report on the gender 
diversity of our senior leadership population, 
and to more closely align to the definition of 
‘senior managers' within the Companies Act, 
the scope of the ‘senior manager' population 
within this disclosure has been revised this 
year to reflect the Group Executive Committee 
and their direct reports. This represents 
a narrower scope than in previous years, 
however in reporting on the Group Executive 
Committee and their direct reports, this 
disclosure is now fully aligned to Barclays 
Hampton Alexander commitments.

Of our global workforce of 86,800 (47,900 
male, 38,900 female), 81 were senior 
managers (58 male, 23 female). The global 
workforce of 86,800 represents the total 
number of employees on a headcount basis, 
which is a wider scope than the disclosures 
provided above which are representative 
of full time equivalent (FTE).

Barclays Gender Pay Gap results 2018 
(UK only)
The Gender Pay Gap reflects the difference 
between average male pay and average female 
pay in an organisation, which is largely the 
result of differences in seniority between male 
and female employees.

It compares all employees and does not take 
into account differences in the role performed, 
individual expertise and experience, or other 
factors which legitimately impact the way in 
which different employees are paid.

Paying our employees fairly and equitably 
relative to their role, skills, experience and 
performance is central to our global reward 
philosophy. We review our global reward 
structures on an ongoing basis to ensure that 
there is no unfair gender or other bias in how 
colleagues are paid. 

We are confident that men and women across 
our organisation are paid equally for doing 
the same job, unless there are clear business 
reasons for different levels of pay such as level 
of experience, specific skills and performance.

We have evolved our approach to reporting 
for 2018 to also include the overall pay gap for 
our UK employees combined, as opposed to 
publishing only by legal employing entity. This 
greater transparency enables us to more easily 
compare ourselves with other organisations, 
and track progress across Barclays as a whole. 
We have still published entity-specific figures 
to enable a full, detailed comparison with 
previous years.

UK-wide Gender Pay Gap results 2018
The Ordinary Pay Gap represents the 
difference in the average regular pay for male 
and female employees. The bonus pay gap 
represents the difference in the average bonus 
pay for male and female employees. Also 
reported is the proportion of males and the 
proportion of females receiving a bonus, and 
the proportion of males and females in each 
pay quartile. Pay quartiles are prepared by 
ordering the population by ordinary pay from 
lowest to highest, and then dividing it into 
four equal sub-populations (upper quartile, 
upper middle quartile, lower middle quartile 
and lower quartile) to show how the 
distribution of males and females varies 
according to each quartile.

We are also additionally publishing the Gender 
Pay Gap for Barclays PLC, our group holding 
company with approximately 90 employees. 
While this falls below the mandatory reporting 
threshold of 250 employees, we believe it is 
important to include this to give the most 
accurate picture of our overall position.

Legal entity Gender Pay Gap results 2018
Whilst we observe some small positive 
changes, overall our Gender Pay Gap results 
are similar to those for 2017. The average man 
at Barclays is still more senior than the 
average woman.

The proportion of men and women at each 
of our corporate grades in 2018 is broadly the 
same as for 2017. Our Gender Pay Gap results 
will only change significantly when we see 
significant changes in the shape of our 
employee population. This will take time.

There are many drivers for the proportion 
of men and women at each corporate grade. 
For example, in our retail bank we have 
historically, like others in the industry, attracted 
many women to more junior roles in branches 
that are both local and flexible, allowing our 
employees to balance their work with other 
commitments. In our corporate and investment 
bank, where there are a greater number 
of more senior roles, we have historically 
attracted more men and we have struggled 
to find and attract female applicants.

We have developed many initiatives over a 
number of years, and although the changes in 
population are very small year on year, looking 
back over a longer period shows a positive 
trend in terms of increasing female seniority.

UK-wide gender pay gap results 2018
(representing all UK employees of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Services Limited) 

Ordinary Pay Gap Bonus Pay Gap Receiving Bonus Pay Quartiles
Median Mean Median Mean Female Male Female Male

UK-wide

42.9% 40.2% 43.1% 73.7% 93.5% 91.4%

Q4 71%

Q3 53%

Q2 36%

Q1 32%

29%

47%

64%

68%

<Page End><Page Start>
96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

We are pleased to see that our initiatives are 
beginning to work, but disappointed that 
change has been so slow. It will take some 
time to redress the historic imbalance we 
observe at Barclays and in financial services. 
We need to focus on how to increase the rate 
of change. To do all that we can to achieve 
this, in announcing our 2021 women in senior 
leadership target set out above, the Group 
CEO has become the accountable Group 
Executive Committee member for gender with 
support from the Group Executive Committee.

LGBT+ and Spectrum 
Barclays has been helping UK society move 
forward for 328 years – and supporting the 
LGBT+ community is one of the ways we do 
that. Barclays led the parade at the biggest-
ever Pride event in London as the headline 
sponsor for the fifth year, with our message 
‘Love goes the distance'. The theme celebrated 
how far society and attitudes have moved 
forward, yet keeps the focus on the unfinished 
journey – that there's more to overcome to 
achieve full inclusion. Our message reached 
over half a million people across multiple 
communications channels and across the 
UK over 2,000 Barclays colleagues participated 
in 21 regional Pride events across the UK.

An inclusive culture that enables colleagues 
to bring their whole selves to work is built on 
having leadership participation and visible role 
models. Now in its fourth year, our Spectrum 
Allies campaign hosted a successful 
recognition of International Day Against 
Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia 
(IDAHOBIT) globally with leaders pledging 

to challenge homophobia, biphobia and 
transphobia in the workplace and provide 
support to LGBT+ colleagues. Independent 
recognition reflects the progress we are 
making and the impact of our strategy. 
For the sixth consecutive year, Stonewall has 
recognised Barclays as one of only 12 Top 
Global Employers.

To further support our LGBT+ agenda, we have 
instituted a new gender neutral title option 
of Mx, available for a number of countries. 
Mx can now be used by anyone who does 
not want their title to denote their gender, 
regardless of how they identify their gender. 
Additionally, we are making our buildings 
more inclusive as we have established gender 
neutral toilet facilities in London, India, and 
Whippany, and will continue this trend as part 
of our location strategy.

Finally, we have expanded our health care 
schemes to meet the needs of our colleagues 
who identify as transgender. In the UK we 
have expanded transgender specific health 
care benefits into our private health 
care scheme.

Disability and mental health
Supporting colleagues with disabilities and 
mental health conditions to achieve their 
goals is a key priority. As part of our role as 
a Disability Confident Leader under the 
UK Government's Department of Work and 
Pensions Disability Confident scheme, Barclays 
has taken an active role in encouraging more 
businesses to join the scheme, which now 
exceeds 7,000. To mark International Day 
of Persons with Disabilities we launched 

a paper ‘Building disability and mental 
health confidence' which documents our 
journey to becoming a more accessible and 
inclusive business.

Our policies for hiring and selection, and in 
the broad management of our teams, require 
all employees at Barclays to give full and fair 
consideration of disabled persons on the 
basis of their skills and aptitudes. As part of 
the Disability Confident scheme we actively 
encourage applications from those with 
a disability or health condition, and we 
continually develop different recruitment 
models to remove the barriers to work for 
people of all abilities. Our Able to Enable 
internship is just one example. We encourage 
everyone who is either working with Barclays, 
or considering doing so, to open up and 
share information that will help us to provide 
the support and adjustments, including 
appropriate training, that they need to be able 
to feel valued and fulfilled at work. Barclays' 
policies are designed to provide training, career 
development and promotion opportunities 
for all, including employees with a disability 
or health condition.

Reach, the disability and mental health 
network
Reach, our disability and mental health 
colleague network, supports colleagues with 
disabilities, and physical and mental health 
conditions, to develop and grow their careers 
within Barclays. It has engaged colleagues 
through a range of campaigns during 
2018 including World Autism Week, Deaf 
Awareness Week and World Sight Day. 

People
Governance: People

Legal entity gender pay gap results 2018

Ordinary Pay Gap Bonus Pay Gap Receiving Bonus Pay Quartiles
Median Mean Median Mean Female Male Female Male

Barclays 
Bank UK 
PLC

14.9% 25.8% 43.7% 57.4% 94.8% 92.7%

Q4 56%

Q3 35%

Q2 33%

Q1 28%

44%

65%

67%

72%

Barclays 
Bank PLC

44.1% 49.3% 71.4% 77.0% 93.1% 93.8%

Q4 81%

Q3 68%

Q2 48%

Q1 36%

19%

32%

52%

64%

Barclays 
Services 
Limited

27.5% 23.0% 23.0% 44.1% 91.1% 89.2%

Q4 71%

Q3 64%

Q2 52%

Q1 43%

29%

36%

48%

57%

Barclays 
PLCa

23.9% 35.5% 9.4% 51.6% 95.2% 96.9%

Q4 75%

Q3 75%

Q2 80%

Q1 65%

25%

25%

20%

35%

Note
a Barclays PLC (c.90 employees) solo basis.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 97

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

They have grown the number of colleague-led 
mental health peer support groups both 
within the UK and in the US. In July, they 
launched a new global interactive version of 
the Workplace Adjustment Passport to create 
an even simpler way for colleagues to record 
their adjustments and make for easier 
conversations as they move through their 
careers at Barclays. Through the Your View 
survey 6% of respondents disclosed a 
disability or mental health condition and the 
number of colleagues registering as allies 
through our Reach Purple Champions 
initiative doubled during 2018 with over 
1,600 colleagues registering.

Multigenerational
Our Multigenerational agenda aims to enable 
Barclays to be an employer of choice across 
generations and life stages by providing tools 
and programmes that enable our colleagues 
to balance their work lives with their personal 
commitments, while providing them with 
career development opportunities at each 
life stage.

We are proud to have joined the Equality 
and Human Rights Commission's ‘Working 
Forward' campaign which aims to make 
workplaces the best they can be for pregnant 
women and new parents.

Both the 2017 and 2018 multigenerational 
figures have been reported on the basis of 
revised definitions of the multigenerational 
groupings, in order to better align our 
reporting to both internal and external 
categorisations of generations within 
the workplace.

Dynamic Working – helping shape the agile 
culture for a technology-led workplace
We are committed to creating an inclusive 
environment and supporting our colleagues 
in managing their work and non-work 
priorities through our pioneering campaign 
Dynamic Working. This flagship campaign of 
the Multigenerational agenda helps colleagues 
to integrate their professional and personal 
lives, whether they are millennials, ‘midlifers', 
dads, mums, colleagues with disabilities or 
carers. In 2018, 63% of respondents reported 
as working dynamically (through Your View, 
our colleague engagement survey). Leading 
the efforts are 2,100 colleagues who have 
signed up as Dynamic Working champions. 
Champions' support in organising local 
activities including Dynamic Working clinics 
where managers have an opportunity to learn 
more about how to ensure Dynamic Working 
can work for them and for their teams. 

Since the launch of the campaign in 2015, 
more than 4,500 leaders have attended a 
Dynamic Working clinic. In 2018, we held 
55 clinics with more than 550 enrolments 
across the clinics.

During International Women's Day 2018 we 
published a white paper on Dynamic Working 
where we shared what we have learnt over 
three years of our campaign execution. The 
paper is aimed at helping other organisations 
who are looking to embark on a similar 
journey of cultural transformation. The 
campaign was recognised externally at the 
UK Working Families Best Practice Awards 
2018 where Barclays won the award for the 
Best for Embedded Flexibility.

Bridge: a new multigenerational network 
In 2018, we launched ‘Bridge' – a 
multigenerational employee diversity network. 
The network offers two forums – the already 
successful ‘Emerge' for colleagues who are 
early in their career either with Barclays or 
in financial services, and the ‘Midlife' forum 
for our more experienced colleagues. Both 
forums offer development and collaboration 
opportunities to their members.

Working Families network – our award-
winning network for parents and carers 
Our Working Families Network offers a 
supportive network for Barclays colleagues 
who are parents, parents-to-be or carers, 
and to help with the challenges of balancing 
family, life and work. The network which 
has more than 4,600 members runs regular 
speaker events, webinars and seminars 
for colleagues, as well as providing useful 
information on working family-related topics.

The network also gets involved in helping 
shape inclusive family-friendly policies. In Asia 
Pacific, the representatives from the Working 
Families Network collaborated with the Win 
network, Spectrum, the LGBT+ networks and 
HeForShe supporters towards an enhancement 
of erstwhile paternity leave. To reflect our 
inclusive approach, the leave has evolved to 
a gender-neutral non-primary caregiver leave 
entitlement. It has been tripled to six weeks 
paid leave for colleagues in all Barclays entities 
in China, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore 
and India.

The network was recognised as Best Family 
Network in the Working Families' Best Practice 
Awards 2018 (UK) winning the Cityparents 
Best Family Network this year. In the US, we've 
been recognised by Working Mother Media 
in their Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index 
as a top employer and as one of the Best 
Companies for Women in India. Barclays was 
also named as a Top 10 employers for Working 
Families by the UK's work-life balance charity 
Working Families. The placings are based on 
the highly competitive Working Families' 
benchmarking survey, which examines all 
aspects of workplace agility/flexibility and 
how employers support the work-life balance 
of all their staff.

Multicultural
During 2018, we celebrated The Embracing Us 
campaign for the second year challenging 
global stereotypes and mind-sets in relation to 
nationality, faith, ethnicity, race and language. 
The campaign saw positive colleague 
participation during World Culture Day 
celebrations in May. Colleagues were engaged 
through multiple communications channels, 
events, leadership forums and the launch of 
the Barclays Culture Wizard, an online learning 
platform designed to enhance your global 
mind-set through courses, videos, articles, 
quizzes, self-assessments and more. A number 
of Barclays colleagues were also featured on 
the EMpower 2018 Ethnic Minorities Leaders 
List published in the Financial Times.

Multigenerational

Veterans – born prior to 1946

2018 – 0.02%

2017 – 0.02%

Baby Boomers – 1946–1964

2018 8%

2017 10%

Generation X – 1965–1978

2018 28%

2017 30%

Generation Y – 1979–1994

2018 57%

2017 56%

Generation Z – born after 1994

2018 – 6%

2017 – 4%

<Page End><Page Start>
98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

We are proud to be a signatory for the new 
Race at Work Charter announced by the UK 
Prime Minister in October 2018. The Charter, 
developed jointly by the Government and 
Business in the Community (BITC), sets 
out a number of principles and actions that 
businesses are asked to publicly commit to, 
helping to tackle ‘ethnic disparities in the 
workplace'. This Charter builds on the work 
of the 2017 McGregor-Smith Review, ‘Race 
in the workplace'. By being one of the first 
organisations to sign up to the charter, we 
are demonstrating our commitment to taking 
practical steps to ensure our workplace is 
tackling barriers that ethnic minorities 
may face.

The chart above shows the percentage of 
under-represented populations that make up 
our global and regional populations. Under-
represented populations include Asian, Mixed, 
Black, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific Islander and Native American 
colleagues. To improve the accuracy of 
reporting on under-represented populations, 
colleagues with an undisclosed ethnicity 
(22% of our global population) have been 
excluded from all calculations, both for 2018 
and retrospectively for 2017.

Barclays workforce strategy has driven the 
year-on-year increase in our permanent 
headcount, primarily within the Technology 
function, where there has been a continued 
focus on both reducing third party staff 
and bringing intellectual property in-house 
through permanent employment. In addition, 
in some parts of the firm we have placed 
additional focus on hiring specific skill sets 
externally across our strategic hubs, in line 
with our location strategy.

Cultural change
Over the last three years we have focused 
on developing and embedding a Culture 
measurement framework, and in 2018 
with the launch of our new Purpose, have 
continued to evolve the framework so that 
it generates useful insights for senior 
management to take action on to drive 
cultural change. 

This year, the Culture Dashboard has 
remained anchored in our Values; with 
consistency in metrics maintained as far as 
is practical whilst also addressing business 
feedback regarding the flexibility to include 
business specific metrics. Reporting continues 
to the Board Reputation Committee, Group 
Executive Committee and Business Unit and 
Functional Executive Committees stimulating 
discussion and debate.

Colleague engagement is a useful data point 
contained in the Culture Dashboard and 
one measure of how we are embedding 
the desired culture. This year, we have seen 
the engagement of colleagues improve 
by 4% points since 2016 to 79% in 2018, 
underscoring the continued efforts to make 
Barclays a great place to work. Other key 
highlights which also demonstrate the 
continued embedding of the Values of 
Respect and Stewardship include “Barclays 
is focused on achieving good customer and 
client outcomes” (92% favourable, up 9% 
points on 2016); “I can be myself at work” 
(91% favourable) and “I would recommend 
Barclays as a good place to work” (83% 
favourable, up 7% points on 2016).

Examples of Group-wide actions that are 
key to unlocking colleague engagement and 
embedding the desired culture include the 
continued focus on our Dynamic Working 
campaign. An area of continued opportunity 
is embedding the value of Excellence, by 
enabling our colleagues through enhanced 
technology and collaboration tools. The 
ongoing investment in our technology is 
having an impact with colleague responses 
to the question “My business has been 
successful in eliminating obstacles to 
efficiency” (59% favourable, up 23% points 
on 2016) which is a sign that progress is 
being made, albeit there is still more to do.

Note: The Your View comparisons are shown 
as 2018 v 2016 because 2016 was the last 
all‑employee survey. During 2017 we ran 
quarterly surveys surveying 25% of our 
population each quarter.

People
Governance: People

Permanent employees by region
2018 2017 2016

United Kingdom 49,900 48,700 46,400
Continental Europe and Middle East 3,200 3,600 4,700
Americas 10,600 10,400 9,700
Asia Pacific 19,800 17,200 15,700
Africa – – 42,800
Total 83,500 79,900 119,300

Multicultural

% UK 

2018 18

2017 18

% US

2018 46

2017 44

% Global

2018 40

2017 36

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 99

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Annual statement from the  
Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee

Governance: Remuneration report

Dear Fellow Shareholders
As Chairman of the Board Remuneration 
Committee, I am pleased to introduce the 
Remuneration report for 2018.

I have been a member of the Committee since 
May 2014 and Chairman since April 2015. 
Through this period, I have observed an 
increased focus in our discussions on many 
of the important themes encapsulated within 
Barclays' Fair Pay Agenda. While each of the 
concepts has evolved at Barclays over many 
years, the way that they are strategically 
incorporated within the overall agenda and 
the prominence that this takes in the collective 
thinking of the Committee has certainly 
changed. It has become an increasingly 
important lens through which we consider the 
appropriateness of pay outcomes throughout 
the Group. As a Committee we are proud 
of the ongoing work in this area, and in 
particular of the Fair Pay Report that we 
publish this year to highlight some of the 
achievements to date, while importantly 
setting out our areas of focus for the future.

As well as fair pay, the Committee continues 
to focus on rewarding sustainable performance 
as one of the key elements of our remuneration 
philosophy. Rewarding sustainable performance 
means looking at performance through 
multiple lenses throughout the business, to 
ensure that we align how our staff are paid 
with a holistic view of their performance.

2018 has also seen the Remuneration 
Committees of two of our major subsidiary 
entities (Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays 
Bank PLC) become fully operational. The 
Committee has valued the additional oversight 
that both Committees bring, and the positive 
interactions that have taken place with the 
Barclays PLC Committee.

I would like to thank you for your strong 
support of the implementation of the 
remuneration policy at the last Annual 
General Meeting (AGM), at which it received 
almost 96% of shareholder votes in favour. 
I have set out below a summary of our 2018 
performance, the key decisions made on 
remuneration and the areas of focus for 2019.

Performance and pay
2018 has been a year of positive strategic and 
financial performance for the Group. Strong 
progress towards our external financial targets 
has been made, with profit before taxa (PBT) 
up £953m (20%) from 2017 to £5,701m. 
Group return on tangible equityb (RoTE) is 
8.5%, up 2.9% points on prior year and on 
track to achieve our targets for 2019 and 
2020. Our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 
ratio is 13.2%, at the end-state target range 
of c.13%.

It has also been another year of successful 
execution against our strategy. This included 
the stand-up of the UK ring-fenced bank, full 
regulatory deconsolidation of Barclays Africa 

Group Limited (BAGL), and the conclusion 
of a number of significant legacy litigation 
and conduct matters. 

The Committee shares the disappointment 
that this positive performance has not yet 
translated into share price performance, as 
macroeconomic factors continue to weigh 
heavily on investor sentiment. In determining 
the appropriate pay outcomes for 2018, we 
have taken a balanced view of performance, 
reflecting both the significant progress made 
during the year and the foundations laid for 
further and sustainable future improvements. 
It is important for the Committee to recognise 
these positive steps in performance, ensuring 
that Barclays continues to be able to attract 
and retain the talent needed to deliver our 
strategy and returns to our shareholders.

The Committee has approved a Group 
incentive pool of £1,649m, up 9% from 2017, 
against a PBTa increase of 20%. This pool 
change is the first increase in our incentive 
pool since 2013. Since 2010, our incentive 
pool is down 53%. This trend means that 
in some areas of the Bank, pay is now 
positioned behind our peers when adjusted 
for performance. A small part of the increase 
in the incentive pool is intended to ensure that 
we continue to align pay with performance 
and retain high performing talent in key 
business areas.

Our focus is on aligning pay with performance, while ensuring 
we continue to attract and retain the employees critical to 
delivering our strategy. Our Fair Pay Agenda is a key lens the 
Committee applies when considering the appropriateness 
of pay outcomes.

Contents
Page

Annual statement 99

At a glance – Group performance and pay for 2018 102

Remuneration policy for all employees 104

Directors' remuneration policy 109

Annual report on Directors' remuneration 112

Remuneration  
Committee members
Chairman
Crawford Gillies

Members
Tim Breedon
Mary Francis
Dambisa Moyo

Notes
a Excluding litigation and conduct.
b Excluding litigation and conduct. The prior year excludes litigation and conduct, Deferred Tax Asset remeasurement and the loss on the sale of 33.7% of BAGL's issued share 

capital and the impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL.

<Page End><Page Start>
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual statement from the  
Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee

Governance: Remuneration report

The increase also reflects some strategic 
hiring into key areas as well as an increase 
in permanent staff headcount, as we reduce 
outsourcing and third party arrangements 
in favour of building internal capability in 
line with our technology strategy to deliver 
ongoing cost efficiencies and retain 
intellectual property for the Group. 

The Committee reviews key compensation 
ratios as part of its decision making on the 
pool, for example the Group compensation 
to net income ratioa, which continues to 
improve, down year on year from 38.0% 
to 36.6%. The ratio of Group staff costs to 
incomea also reduced from 40.6% in 2017 
to 40.2%, demonstrating the effectiveness 
of the insourcing strategy in reducing overall 
staff costs.

The total incentive pool incorporates 
appropriate adjustments for risk and conduct 
matters, reflecting the ongoing seriousness 
with which the Committee views these issues.

Fair pay 
We continue to be committed to fair pay, 
ensuring that all our employees are 
appropriately and fairly rewarded for their 
contribution. The 2018 Fair Pay Report sets 
out our progress against each of the five 
themes of Barclays' Fair Pay Agenda as 
referenced in last year's Remuneration report. 

Our Gender Pay Gap reporting is included 
within ‘equal opportunities to progress', given 
the underlying drivers of the pay gaps relate 
to the distribution of male and female staff 
within the organisation.

The Committee notes that the disclosed 
Gender Pay Gaps, while down slightly, are 
broadly consistent with the 2017 outcomes. 
Through 2018, Barclays' approaches have 
been assessed against the ‘Evidence-based 
actions' list as published by the UK 
Government Equalities Office and the 
Behavioural Insights Team, which has been 
very informative. While in many areas our 
existing approaches are aligned with those 
listed as effective actions, there is scope for 
further improvement. The Fair Pay Report 
sets out areas of focus to increase the rate 
of change.

Additionally, as well as supporting the 
Government's consultation on Ethnicity Pay 
Gap reporting, we have decided to include 
our Ethnicity Pay Gap for the first time, ahead 
of any mandatory reporting requirements. 
This is intended to foster further positive 
conversations in this space, as the Gender Pay 
Gap reporting has done across our industry 
and more broadly in society.

Some of the other highlights noted by the 
Committee through 2018 have included the 
ongoing work in ensuring that we treat our 
lowest paid employees fairly through 

initiatives such as increasing pension 
contributions to our most junior populations 
in the UK, to be followed by a review in other 
locations during 2019. 

We also make sure that employees are 
appropriately represented in remuneration 
decision-making. We listen to our employees 
(as we do with other stakeholders) through 
a number of different channels, both formally 
and informally. Many of my fellow Committee 
members at both the Group and subsidiary 
levels have spent time with staff and listened 
to their views and perspectives around 
how they are paid. An example of a more 
structured piece of employee engagement on 
remuneration within Barclays UK is included 
in the Fair Pay Report. It included conducting 
a pulse survey of over 2,000 employees, as 
well as 25 focus groups held across multiple 
sites and business areas. The key themes 
that emerged resonated with the Group 
remuneration philosophy, including a desire 
for greater simplicity and transparency. Work 
is ongoing to respond to this feedback, which 
will be communicated to our colleagues in 
Barclays UK during 2019.

The Committee reviews pay proposals for 
appropriateness across both businesses and 
corporate grade structures, with pay for 
executive Directors thereby set in the context 
of business performance and pay for all 
employees. Additionally, we disclose our 
CEO pay ratios once again, following on 
from our first disclosure last year. Ahead of 
requirements from the UK Government, this 
year we also include the UK employee upper 
quartile and lower quartile reference points.

A high level summary of our Fair Pay Report 
is included on page 107. Our full Fair Pay 
Report can be found on home.barclays/
annualreport.

Key remuneration decisions for 
executive Directors
In line with the current Directors' Remuneration 
Policy (DRP) approved by shareholders at 
the 2017 AGM, the Committee considered 
the executive Directors' performance against 
the financial and strategic non-financial 
performance measures which had been set to 
reflect company priorities for 2018. Separately, 
performance against their personal objectives 
was assessed on an individual basis.

Based on Jes Staley's performance against the 
performance measures set at the beginning 
of the year, the Committee approved a 2018 
bonus of £1,061,000 (48.3% of maximum) 
of which 62% will be deferred. This incentive 
outcome is slightly down from 2017, despite 
the strong strategic progress and significant 
improvement in financial performance over 
the year. This is because of the very stretching 
financial targets in the annual bonus plan set 
by the Committee, which paid below target 

despite 20% year on year PBTb growth. 
The Committee's deliberations on his 2018 
personal performance have taken account 
of financial delivery, in particular ensuring 
that the Group is on track to deliver against 
our 2019 and 2020 financial targets. The 
Committee has also taken account of the 
successful completion of the Structural 
Reform programme, with the UK ring-fenced 
bank fully operational and Barclays UK 
adequately capitalised. The significant work 
required to ensure that the Group is prepared 
for Brexit has also been recognised, as 
Barclays Bank Ireland is on track to be 
operational in its expanded form from 
29 March 2019. The Committee has also 
noted the significant progress in strategic 
non-financial performance across the Group, 
in particular against our Citizenship agenda 
and Colleague metrics as well as improvements 
in key Customer and Client measures.

As previously announced, malus has 
been applied to Jes Staley's 2016 variable 
compensation, reducing the awarded value 
by £500,000.

Based on Tushar Morzaria's performance 
against the performance measures set at 
the beginning of the year, the Committee 
approved a 2018 bonus of £729,000 (49.3% 
of maximum) of which 45% will be deferred. 
Similar to the annual bonus outcome for Jes 
Staley, this is slightly down on 2017 as a result 
of very stretching financial targets in the 
annual bonus plan. The Committee has taken 
account of the instrumental role Tushar 
Morzaria has played in delivering the 2018 
financial outcomes, continuing to make 
improvements in cost management, as well 
as applying greater control and management 
of the allocation and deployment of capital 
across the Group. The Committee has also 
noted his key role in the execution of the 
Structural Reform programme. Tushar 
Morzaria has exemplified our Values and 
delivered favourable engagement scores 
within the Finance function. Additionally, 
he continues to demonstrate effective 
management of key stakeholders, receiving 
excellent feedback from the Board, regulators 
and shareholders.

The Committee decided to make an award 
under the 2019-2021 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar 
Morzaria with a face value at grant of 120% 
of their respective Total fixed pay. This reflects 
their strong performance in 2018, as well as 
the importance that they are retained during 
the coming years to continue to deliver 
our strategy.

The Committee reflected on the 
appropriateness of making a full LTIP 
award for the 2019-2021 cycle, given the 
decline in share price over the last year 

Notes
a Basis aligned with disclosure in the Results Announcement.
b Excluding litigation and conduct.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 101

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

and considering key institutional investor 
guidance. It concluded that this would be 
appropriate, as macroeconomic uncertainties 
have played a key part in the share price 
reductions, reflected across our industry. 
Additionally, the LTIP award has stretching 
performance conditions attached and given 
the long vesting periods (up to eight years), 
shares will be released from this and other 
LTIP awards across different economic cycles 
at different share prices. Importantly, the 
Committee also retains complete discretion to 
reduce the number of vested shares should it 
appear that the executive Directors will benefit 
in a way not aligned with performance. The 
Committee determined the outcomes of 
the 2018 annual bonus and the LTIP award 
alongside each other, ensuring that the 
outcomes are appropriately balanced. This 
was based on a full assessment of performance 
across all of the relevant factors. 

The performance measures for the LTIP have 
been reviewed and continue to align with our 
external key performance targets. RoTE and 
cost: income ratio have been retained as the 
key financial metrics, with the weightings 
remaining unchanged at 50% and 20% 
respectively. The RoTE measure remains 
subject to a CET1 ratio underpin.

Both executive Directors' Fixed Pay will be 
unchanged for 2019 at £2,350,000 for Jes 
Staley and £1,650,000 for Tushar Morzaria; 
aligned with the DRP approved at the 
2017 AGM. 

Looking ahead
As a Committee, we will be reviewing the 
DRP to ensure that future arrangements 
are aligned with our strategy and meet any 
new regulatory requirements. This will be 
developed over the coming months and we 
will engage constructively with shareholders 
and regulators ahead of the 2020 AGM, where 
we will be seeking shareholder approval. 

The Committee has reviewed the updated UK 
Corporate Governance Code, and is pleased 
that Barclays remuneration policies align to its 
requirements in many areas, including vesting 
periods for deferred shares, the ability to apply 
malus and clawback to awards made and 
post-employment shareholding requirements. 
While the Committee has for many years 
reviewed remuneration policies and outcomes 
for the broader workforce, this has now been 
formalised within its Terms of Reference and 
will continue to be considered throughout 
2019 when making decisions for both the 
executive Directors, other senior employees 
and the wider workforce.

In finalising our plans ahead of the departure 
of the UK from the EU, the Committee will 
continue to work on the remuneration aspects 
associated with the operationalisation of 
Barclays Bank Ireland in its expanded form. 

Finally, the Committee continues to focus on 
our Fair Pay Agenda as thinking and best 
practice in this important area evolves.

Remuneration report
We have provided an ‘At a glance' summary 
of 2018 performance and pay on the next 
page. The annual report on Directors' 
remuneration provides further details. 
In line with UK regulations, we are seeking 
shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM for the 
Remuneration report. Further details can be 
found in the 2019 AGM Notice of Meeting.

Crawford Gillies 
Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee
20 February 2019

<Page End><Page Start>
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

At a glance – Group performance and pay for 2018
Governance: Remuneration report

Group RoTE excluding
litigation and conduct and other material itemsb

+2.9%pts 

Group profit before tax excluding  
litigation and conduct 

+20% 

Cost:income ratio excluding
litigation and conduct

-2%pts 

Group staff costs to income ratioc  

-0.4%pts 

Group incentive pool 

+9% 

Group compensation to net income ratioc  

-1.4%pts 
Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) front-office ratio also down 1.1%pts
(2018: 25.0%, 2017: 26.1%)

Group performance and pay
Significant strategic progress was made in 2018 including:
■■ strong progress towards 2019 and 2020 financial targets
■■ successful stand-up of the UK ring-fenced bank
■■ full regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL
■■ year of strong strategic performance, including improvements in:

 – Customer & Client measures such as Net Promoter Scores®
 – Colleague measures such as improved engagement scores
 – Citizenship measures including exceeding carbon emissions target

■■ pool increase of 9% aligns with stronger financial performance (PBTa up 20% and RoTEb up 2.9%pts) and significant strategic execution
■■ incentive pool has been materially repositioned since 2010 (2018 incentive pool outcome is down 53% on 2010).

2018 £5,701m

2017 £4,748m

2018 8.5%

2017 5.6%

2018 66%

2017 68%

2018

40.6%2017

40.2%

2018 £1,649m

2017 £1,506m

2018 36.6%

2017 38.0%

a Excluding litigation and conduct.
b Excluding litigation and conduct. The prior year excludes litigation and conduct, Deferred Tax Asset remeasurement and the loss on the sale of 33.7% of BAGL's issued share 

capital and the impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL.
c Basis aligned with disclosure in the Results Announcement. In future the ratio will be disclosed as ‘Group compensation to total income' to fully align with the disclosure in 

the Results Announcement. In this transitional year, both figures are provided: the Group compensation to total income ratio for 2018 is 34.1%, up slightly from 33.8% in 2017. 
The slight increase is due to insourcing, as seen in the reduced ratio of Group staff costs to income shown above. CIB front-office to total income ratio is broadly flat at 25.6%. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 103

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Executive Directors: performance outcomes

Shareholding requirement policy:
■■ minimum of 200% of Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) within five years from date of appointment
■■ shareholding requirement for two years post termination of 100% of Total fixed pay (or pro rata thereof) introduced from 2017.

Tushar Morzaria Date of appointment: 15 October 2013

Requirement £3,700k

Actual £4,525k

Jes Staley Date of appointment: 1 December 2015

Requirement £5,492k

Actual £7,729k

Executive Directors: share ownership

 Fixed Pay  Pension and benefits  Annual bonus  LTIP

a Jes Staley was not a participant in the 2015-2017 or 2016-2018 LTIP cycles; the LTIP figures for 2017 and 2018 are therefore zero for him.
b This outcome does not reflect the malus applied to Jes Staley's 2016 variable compensation, which is required to be included in the 2018 single total figure table.

Tushar Morzaria

2017 £3.59m

2018 £3.48m

Max £5.60m

Jes Staley

2017a £3.87m

2018a,b £3.86m

Max £8.29m

Executive Directors: remuneration outcomes

Financial (70%)
RoTE excluding material items (25%)
0% 50% 100%

CET1 ratio (25%)
0% 50% 100%

Cost:income ratio excluding material items (20%)
0% 50% 100%

 
Risk scorecard (15%)
0% 50% 100%

Balanced scorecard (15%)
0% 50% 100%

Financial (60%)
Profit before tax excluding material items (40%)
0% 50% 100%

Cost:income ratio excluding material items (20%)
0% 50% 100%

Strategic non-financial (20%)
0% 50% 100%

Personal objectives (20%)
Jes Staley
0% 50% 100%

Tushar Morzaria
0% 50% 100%

Annual bonus 2016-2018 Long Term Incentive Plan

Performance measures (% weighting)

Jes Staley

£1,061k 48.3% 
 of maximum

0% 50% 100%

Tushar Morzaria

£729k 49.3% 
 of maximum

0% 50% 100%

Tushar Morzaria

£851ka 39% 
  of maximum

0% 50% 100%
a By reference to Q4 2018  

average share price

<Page End><Page Start>
104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Remuneration philosophy
In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays' overarching 
remuneration approach and is set out below.

Barclays' remuneration philosophy

Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays' strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees. 
This means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent 
to deliver against our strategy, and paying the right amount for 
that talent

Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees' interests are aligned with those of investors 
(equity and debt holders), both in structure and the appropriate 
balance of returns

Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to 
stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable 
role in society

Support Barclays' Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values. 
Our Values and culture should drive the way that business 
is conducted

Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with 
the Bank's risk appetite and conduct expectations

Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward 
our employees. Remuneration structures should be as simple as 
possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the 
behaviours they reward

Performance and remuneration
Barclays' remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value. Our remuneration 
philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical 
to enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values. Employees who adhere to the Barclays' Values and contribute to Barclays' 
success are rewarded accordingly.

This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their 
objectives (‘what' they will deliver) to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good client/customer 
outcomes. Behavioural expectations (‘how' people will achieve their objectives) are set in the context of our Values.

Performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria. Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall 
performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well 
as input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.

Through our approach to performance, the equal importance of both ‘what' an individual has delivered as well as ‘how' the individual has 
achieved this is emphasised, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension. Both of these elements are assessed and rated independently 
of each other. There is no requirement to have an overall rating which allows for more robust and reflective conversations between managers and 
team members on the individual components of performance.

A key part of the performance philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year. This helps manage performance messages 
effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching, feedback and support where needed.

By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays' strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment 
between what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.

Remuneration policy for all employees
Governance: Remuneration report

This section sets out Barclays' remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration 
packages, and how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 105

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Risk, conduct and remuneration
Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations 
of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders. The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate 
adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.

The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process. The Panel is chaired by the Group HR 
Director and includes the Group Heads of Risk, Compliance, Legal and Internal Audit as well as the CEOs of Barclays UK and Barclays International. 
It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.

We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected 
in individual remuneration decisions. Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring that risk and conduct issues are considered when 
assessing performance and making remuneration decisions. In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals 
involved in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or 
business to ensure these issues are also considered. When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as 
whether an individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including 
staff who drive the Group's culture and set its strategy.

Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include:

Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible (either directly or indirectly) 
in a risk or misconduct event.

Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting 
level of deferred bonuses (including to nil) at its discretion. Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not 
limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.

Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a Material Risk Taker (MRT) on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of 
years for which they are a MRT. Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven-year period from the date on which 
variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: (i) there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and/or 
(ii) the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individual's proximity to and 
responsibility for that incident.

Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory investigations 
at the end of the seven-year clawback period.

In addition to reductions to individuals' bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific risk 
and conduct events. For 2018, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance and the 
additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of c.£290m.

We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial 
factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on 
customers, markets and other stakeholders. The Committee was supported in its consideration of this adjustment by the Board Risk Committee 
and the Board Reputation Committee.

<Page End><Page Start>
106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Remuneration structure
The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which can be found on 
pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report. The primary exception being that the executive Directors participate in the Barclays' LTIP and receive 
part of their Fixed Pay in Barclays PLC shares.

Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus. Employees in some customer-facing 
businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans, including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure. 
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays' Values. Some senior employees also receive Role Based Pay (RBP). 
Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to fixed remuneration. A total of 1,590 (2017: 1,642 or 1,570 excluding 
BAGL) individuals were MRTs in 2018. Capital requirements regulation (CRR) quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set out on pages 203 to 211 
of Barclays PLC 2018 Pillar 3 Report.

The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the 
parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee. Remuneration for control function employees is less weighted towards 
variable remuneration as compared to front-office employees and variable remuneration is typically limited to one times fixed remuneration. 
This leads to less volatility in overall control function remuneration as compared to front-office outcomes.

Fixed remuneration

Salary Salaries reflect individuals' skills and experience and are reviewed annually.

They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate. Salaries 
may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.

Role Based 
Pay (RBP)

A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth 
of their role.

Pension and 
benefits

The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver 
Barclays' strategy. Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, 
healthcare, life assurance and Barclays' share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits. The cost of providing 
these benefits is defined and controlled.

Variable remuneration

Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees 
for demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays' Values.

The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to 
react to events and market circumstances. Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and 
mobile market for talent in the financial services sector. The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed 
remuneration paid to individuals and also to ensure an appropriate amount is deferred to future years.

The typical deferral structures are:

For MRTs: For non-MRTs:
Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred
< £500,000 40% of total award Up to £65,000 0%
£500,000 to £1,000,000 60% of total award > £65,000 Graduated level of deferral
≥ £1,000,000 60% up to £1,000,000

100% above £1,000,000

Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the 
deferred cash and share plans (as amended from time to time) and continued service. Deferred bonuses are subject to either a 3, 
5 or 7-year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.

Where dividend equivalents cannot be delivered on deferred bonus shares, the number of deferred bonus shares awarded will be 
calculated using a share price discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.

Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay. We also encourage wider 
employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans. 98% of the global employee population is eligible to participate 
(up from 86% in 2017).

Remuneration policy for all employees
Governance: Remuneration report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 107

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Fair Pay Agenda
The principles and policies that govern our approach to pay have evolved over many years. Through five broad themes, our Fair Pay Agenda brings 
that approach together in one place; to explain clearly how we think about pay, and how it sits alongside the other support we provide to help our 
people succeed both in and outside of work. We are committed to ensuring that pay is not only fair, but simple and transparent to all of our 
stakeholders. We have published a standalone Fair Pay Report for the first time this year.

The following sets out some highlights. We encourage you to read the full Fair Pay Report, which can be found on home.barclays/annualreport.

1  Fair Pay for the lowest paid

Pay for our lowest-paid employees is sufficient, simple and transparent, appropriately rewarding all of our people for their work. It is important to 
us that all of our employees feel fulfilled and can bring the best version of themselves to work, which means that they must be paid in a way that 
supports a decent quality of living.

Barclays was the first major financial services institution to become an accredited UK living wage employer in 2013, with all UK employees and 
those who provide services at our sites being paid at least the current National Living Wage (and London Living Wage in London), as set by the 
Living Wage Foundation.

For our lower-paid employees, more of their remuneration is delivered in fixed pay, which means that their total compensation is less volatile and less at risk.

In difficult years, where budgets are most constrained, pay increases are focused on more junior populations.

Bonuses are a smaller part of the overall package for lower-paid employees but are available for people that really deliver for our customers and clients.

To begin to extend our living wage commitment beyond the UK, we will use the Fight for $15 as a reference point in the US. We have plans for 
enhanced pension arrangements for our most junior employees in the UK, and are reviewing the pay structures for our branch and contact centre 
staff.

2  Equal opportunities to progress

We believe that diverse organisations perform better, and that diverse perspectives across the leadership of our organisation lead to better 
decisions. We are an equal opportunities employer. This means that we hire diverse people from all backgrounds, and that all of our employees 
have the same opportunity to progress.

We have a number of initiatives in place to support employees in reaching their full potential, and in balancing their life commitments and their 
work commitments. These are described in more detail in the People section on pages 93 to 98 and are intended to support all of our employees. 

As part of our review of our progress in our Gender Pay Gap disclosure, we have tested our initiatives against best practice for closing Gender Pay 
Gaps as set out by the Government Equalities Office and the Behavioural Insights Team, and are pleased that a number of initiatives in place 
should be effective over the long term. This assessment can be reviewed in our Fair Pay Report.

We still have more to do, and continue to develop our Diversity and Inclusion programmes and initiatives as part of our key agendas on gender, 
multicultural, LGBT+, disability & mental health and multigenerational.

Fair pay

1
  

Fair pay for the lowest paid

Pay for our lowest paid 
employees is sufficient, 
simple and transparent

2
  

Equal opportunities  
to progress

Everyone has the  
opportunity to progress 

through the organisation 
and earn more

3
  

Equal Pay

Pay decisions must not take 
into account gender, age, 

ethnicity, sexual orientation 
or any other protected 

characteristic

4
  

Listening to employees

Employees are appropriately 
represented in remuneration 

decision making

5
  

Performance-linked pay

Pay for all employees  
and executives is linked  
to sustainable business 

performance

<Page End><Page Start>
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Remuneration policy for all employees
Governance: Remuneration report

3  Equal pay
We take specific steps to ensure that employees are paid equally for doing the same job, which means ensuring they are rewarded fairly, with 
regard to their specific role, responsibilities and the other factors that appropriately affect pay. We have formalised this commitment to Equal Pay 
for the first time in our Fair Pay Report. 

Our Equal Pay Commitment sets out the steps we take, including:
■■ being explicit with those who make pay decisions through clear guidance and training, that those decisions must reflect the individual's role and 

contribution
■■ requiring that pay decisions must not, directly or indirectly, take into account an individual's gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, 

marital status, pregnancy, maternity, shared parental, paternity or parental leave, veteran status, disability or any other protected characteristic
■■ subjecting our annual pay review to a rigorous check and challenge process internally
■■ working closely with Unite in the UK to evaluate the fairness of performance management and pay distribution concerning the union-

recognised population
■■ communicating more with our staff and other stakeholders about pay, and increasing the transparency of our Fair Pay Agenda
■■ continuing to look for opportunities to simplify our pay structures where appropriate.

We continue to develop our processes to manage Equal Pay, and to review pay outcomes for all of our employees.

4  Listening to employees

We make sure that employees are appropriately represented in remuneration decision-making.

It is important to us that there is engagement between employees and the Board on a broad range of issues, including remuneration. This helps 
the Board to ensure that Barclays is run for the benefit of all stakeholders.

Management listens to employees through a wide range of different channels, and reports its views to the Board. This includes through senior 
management dialogue with the Remuneration Committee and through the year-end performance and pay review processes. 

In addition, several of our jurisdictions are covered by unions or works councils, with approximately 83% of the UK workforce being represented 
by Unite, our recognised trade union in the UK. 

We also report employee views to the Board through the annual employee opinion survey and a dedicated culture dashboard. Additionally, the 
Board receives the CEO's monthly Barclays PLC report which covers engagement and diversity.

5  Performance-linked pay

We ensure that both executive pay and employee pay are linked to sustainable business performance.

We reward sustainable performance. This means making a positive contribution to stakeholders, in both the short and longer term. To do this, 
we review performance through financial and non-financial lenses, and assess individual performance both on ‘what' is achieved and ‘how' it 
is achieved.

In line with our commitment to fair pay for the lowest paid, we ensure that employees at the most junior levels are not significantly exposed to 
fluctuations in business performance. This helps to plan and manage income more effectively.

Our Fair Pay Report includes illustrations of our approaches to pay for individuals at different levels of the organisation. It shows that as employees 
progress through the organisation and become more senior, a greater proportion of their remuneration is linked to individual and business 
performance, and is therefore at risk. Pay at the most senior levels is most heavily weighted towards performance-related incentives. A significant 
proportion of remuneration for senior employees is also delivered in deferred shares, ensuring longer-term alignment with Company performance. 
The shares are deferred over 3, 5 or 7 years depending on level of pay and seniority.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 109

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Directors' remuneration policy
Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors
Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019

Fixed Pay
To reward skills and 
experience appropriate for 
the breadth and depth of 
the role and to provide the 
basis for a competitive 
remuneration package

Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice and historical 
market data (on which the Committee receives independent advice), 
and reflects the individual's experience and role.

Total compensation is benchmarked against comparable roles in banks. 
50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash (paid monthly), and 50% is 
delivered in shares. The shares are delivered quarterly and are subject 
to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years (20% each 
year). As the executive Directors beneficially own the shares, they will 
be entitled to any dividends paid on those shares. There are no 
performance measures.

Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.

No change from 2018.
■■ Jes Staley: £2,350,000.
■■ Tushar Morzaria: £1,650,000.

These amounts are fixed and will 
not change during the policy 
period for these individuals.

Pension
To enable executive 
Directors to build long-term 
retirement savings

Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu 
of participation in a pension arrangement.

For new hires, the pension allowance is limited to 10% of Fixed Pay.

No change from 2018.
■■ Jes Staley: £396,000 

(Equivalent to 17% of Fixed Pay).
■■ Tushar Morzaria: £200,000 

(Equivalent to 12% of Fixed Pay).

These amounts are fixed and will 
not change during the policy 
period for these individuals.

Benefits
To provide a competitive 
and cost effective benefits 
package appropriate to the 
role and location

Executive Directors' benefits provision includes, but is not restricted to, 
private medical cover, annual health check, life and ill health income 
protection, car cash allowance, and use of a Company vehicle and 
driver when required for business purposes.

In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to relocate, 
additional support would be provided for a defined and limited period 
of time in line with Barclays' general employee mobility policy. Barclays 
will pay the tax on relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will 
also not pay tax on any other employment income.

No change from 2018.

Annual bonus
To reward delivery of short- 
term financial targets set 
each year, the individual 
performance of the executive 
Directors in achieving those 
targets, and their contribution 
to delivering Barclays' 
strategic objectives

Delivery in part in shares 
with a holding period 
increases alignment with 
shareholders. Deferred 
bonuses encourage longer 
term focus and retention

The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 80% of Total fixed pay. 
For these purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

The performance measures include financial and non-financial 
measures, including risk related measures and other personal 
objectives. Financial measures will be at least 60% of the bonus 
opportunity. The Committee has discretion to vary the measures and 
their respective weighting within each category.

Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and shares, 
a proportion of which may be deferred and/or subject to a holding 
period. Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured so 
that, in combination with any LTIP award, the proportion of variable 
pay that is deferred is no less than that required by regulations.

Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred bonus shares. 
If dividend equivalents are not permissible during the vesting period 
under regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will be 
determined using a share price discounted by reference to the expected 
dividend yield.

A notional discount may be applied to deferred bonuses for the purposes 
of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.

Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback 
for a period of seven years (10 years in specific circumstances) from 
the date of award.

Details of performance measures 
are set out on pages 120 to 121.

Shares issued are subject to 
a holding period of one year 
after vesting.

As dividend equivalents are not 
permissible under regulations, the 
number of shares to be awarded 
will be calculated using a share 
price discounted to reflect the 
absence of dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

This section sets out a summary of the Barclays' forward-looking DRP and is provided for information only. The DRP was approved at the 
2017 AGM held on 10 May 2017 and applies for three years from that date. The full DRP can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual 
Report or at home.barclays/annualreport.

<Page End><Page Start>
110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Directors' remuneration policy
Governance: Remuneration report

Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019

Annual bonus
continued

Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid following 
the performance year to which they relate, normally in March. 
Non-deferred share bonuses are also awarded normally in March 
and are subject to a holding period (after the payment of tax) in line 
with regulations.

Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred shares 
vest faster than permitted by regulations. Any shares that vest are 
subject to an additional holding period (after payment of tax) in line 
with regulations.

Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) award
To reward execution of 
Barclays' strategy over a 
multi-year period

Long-term performance 
measurement, deferral and 
holding periods encourage 
a long-term view and align 
executive Directors' interests 
with those of shareholders. 
Malus and clawback 
provisions discourage 
excessive risk-taking and 
inappropriate behaviours

The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of Total fixed pay. For these 
purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.

Forward-looking performance measures will be based on financial 
performance and other long-term strategic measures. Financial 
measures will be at least 70% of the total opportunity. Straight-line 
vesting applies between threshold and maximum for the financial 
measures with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.

LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the annual 
bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred is no less than 
that required by regulations.

The Committee has discretion to vary the measures year on year 
and their respective weighting within each category. The Committee 
also has discretion to amend targets, measures and the number of 
awards in exceptional circumstances and to reduce the vesting of any 
award, including to nil, if it deems that the outcome is not consistent 
with performance.

Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred shares. If dividend 
equivalents are not permissible during the vesting period under the 
regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will be determined 
using a share price discounted by reference to the expected 
dividend yield.

A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the purposes 
of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.

Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback 
for a period of seven years (10 years in specific circumstances) from 
the date of award.

No LTIP award vests before the third anniversary of grant and an award 
vests no faster than permitted by regulations (currently in five equal 
tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third anniversary 
of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh 
anniversary of the grant date). Any shares that vest are subject to an 
additional holding period (after payment of tax) in line with regulations.

Details of performance measures 
and targets for awards to be 
made in 2019 (in respect of 2018) 
are set out on page 119.

For awards to be made in respect 
of 2019, the measures and targets 
will be determined at the end of 
2019 for the performance period 
commencing on 1 January 2020.

On vesting, the award is subject 
to a holding period of one year.

As dividend equivalents are not 
permissible under regulations, the 
number of shares to be awarded 
will be calculated using a share 
price discounted to reflect the 
absence of dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

Shareholding requirement
To further enhance the 
alignment of shareholders' 
and executive Directors' 
interests in long-term value 
creation 

Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of Total fixed 
pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension) within five years from the date of 
appointment as executive Director.

Executive Directors must also continue to hold a shareholding of 100% 
of Total fixed pay (or pro rata thereof) for two years post-termination.

No change from 2018.

(Equivalent to 457% of Salary for 
the Group Chief Executive under 
the previous DRP.)

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 111

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Remuneration policy summary – non-executive Directors
Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019a

Fees
Reflect individual responsibilities 
and membership of Board 
Committees and are set to 
attract non-executive Directors 
who have relevant skills and 
experience to oversee the 
implementation of our strategy

Fees are set at a level which 
reflects the role, responsibilities 
and time commitment which are 
expected from the Chairman and 
non-executive Directors

The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities. 
The Chairman has a minimum time commitment equivalent to at least 
80% of a full-time role. The other non-executive Directors receive 
a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable where individuals serve 
as a member or Chairman of a Committee of the Board.

Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole. Other than in 
exceptional circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 20% 
above the current fee levels during this policy period (basic fees last 
increased in 2011).

£30,000 (Chairman: £100,000) after tax and national insurance 
contributions per annum of each non-executive Director's basic fee 
is used to purchase Barclays' shares which are retained on the 
non-executive Director's behalf until they retire from the Board.

Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees as directors 
of subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC.

No change from 2018.

Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the 
terms of the Barclays' scheme rules from time to time, and is provided 
with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for 
business purposes.

Benefits which are minor in nature and do not exceed a cost of £500 
may be provided to non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.

No change from 2018.

Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any 
reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred for business reasons. 
Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.

No change from 2018.

Note
a Nigel Higgins joins the Board as a non-executive Director on 1 March 2019 and will assume the role of Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Barclays AGM on 2 May 

2019. Nigel Higgins will be appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders. Prior to expiry of the initial term Nigel Higgins may be invited to 
serve a further three-year term. In accordance with the Directors' remuneration policy, Nigel Higgins will be paid an annual fee of £80,000 for so long as he is a non-executive 
Director, and an all-inclusive annual fee of £800,000 (the same rate as the current Chairman) with effect from his assuming the Chairman role and will be provided with private 
medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes. While he is Chairman, Nigel Higgins will be required to use £100,000 per annum 
of his fee after tax and national insurance contributions to purchase Barclays' shares. Nigel Higgins will be expected to commit up to four days a week to the role and it will be his 
principal working commitment. Nigel Higgins' notice period shall be six months from the Company and six months from the Chairman.

Service contracts and letters of appointment
All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment. Copies of the service contracts 
and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company's registered office. The effective dates of the current Directors' 
appointments disclosed in their service contracts or letters of appointment are shown in the table below.

As stated in the letters of appointment, non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and are subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. On expiry of the initial term and subject to the needs of the Board, non-executive Directors may be invited to serve 
a further three years. Non-executive Directors appointed beyond six years will be at the discretion of the Board Nominations Committee. 
All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 

Effective date of appointment

Chairman
John McFarlane 1 January 2015 (non-executive Director), 24 April 2015 (Chairman)

Executive Directors
Jes Staley
Tushar Morzaria

1 December 2015
15 October 2013

Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley
Tim Breedon
Sir Ian Cheshire
Mary Anne Citrino
Mary Francis
Crawford Gillies
Sir Gerry Grimstone
Reuben Jeffery III
Matthew Lester
Dambisa Moyo
Diane Schueneman
Mike Turner

18 September 2013
1 November 2012
3 April 2017
25 July 2018
1 October 2016
1 May 2014
1 January 2016
16 July 2009
1 September 2017
1 May 2010
25 June 2015
1 January 2018

Note
a With effect from 1 April 2018, the Company issued all non-executive Directors with updated letters of appointment to address the change in corporate structure post-Structural 

Reform. Where non-executive Directors have other appointments to Barclays' subsidiaries additional letters of appointment have been issued as appropriate. 

<Page End><Page Start>
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Governance: Remuneration report

Annual report on Directors' remuneration

Executive Directors
Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2018 remuneration (audited)
The following table shows a single total figure for 2018 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director together with 
comparative figures for 2017.

Fixed Pay
£000

Pension
£000

Taxable benefits
£000

Annual bonus
£000

LTIP
£000

Reduction of 
unvested deferred 

awards 
£000

Total
£000

2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Jes Staley 2,350 2,350 396 396 55 62 1,061 1,065 – – (500)d – 3,362 3,873
Tushar Morzaria 1,650 1,614 200 200 49 44 729 747 851a 982b,c – – 3,479 3,587

Notes
a No significant movement in share price between grant and vest (based on Q4 2018 average price), no discretion applied.
b The LTIP amount includes a reduction of c.£200k attributable to 17% share price depreciation between date of grant and vesting date; no discretion applied.
c LTIP and dividend equivalent figures for 2017 have been adjusted to reflect the share price on the date of vesting (211p) rather than the Q4 2017 average price.
d As previously announced, malus was applied to Jes Staley's 2016 variable compensation.

Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors (audited)
Fixed Pay
Fixed Pay is delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares (subject to a five-year holding period lifting pro-rata).

Pension
Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions. The cash allowance in 2018 was £396,000 for Jes Staley and £200,000 
for Tushar Morzaria. No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays' pension plan.

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company 
vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.

Annual bonus
Annual bonuses are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate. The Committee considered the executive Directors' 
performance against the financial (60% weighting) and strategic non-financial (20% weighting) performance measures which had been set to 
reflect company priorities for 2018. Performance against their individual personal objectives (20% weighting) was assessed on an individual basis.

Financial (60% weighting)
The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures was based on a straight-line outcome between 
20% for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance. The PBT measure is also 
subject to a CET1 underpin. The CET1 ratio reached a temporary low point in Q1 of 12.7%, driven primarily by the settlement of a historical 
litigation and conduct case. As the CET1 recovered to 13.0% in Q2, the Committee determined to pay out the PBT measure fully in line with the 
formulaic outcome.

The formulaic outcome against the financial measures set at the beginning of the year gave a total of 14.8% out of 60% being payable attributable 
to those measures. A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.

Financial performance measure Weighting
Threshold

20%
Maximum

100%
2018

Actual
2018

Outcome
Profit before tax excluding material itemsa with CET1 ratio underpin 40% £5.00bn £6.50bn £5.32bn 14.8%
Cost: income ratio excluding material itemsa 20% 66.5% 62.0% 68.2% 0%
Total Financial 60% 14.8%

Note
a Material items consist of charges for PPI and settlement with regard to residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS).

Strategic (20% weighting)
Progress in relation to each of the strategic measures, organised around three main categories, was assessed by the Committee. The Committee 
used the following scale in relation to each measure: 0% to 1% firmly below performance expectations, 1.5% to 3% slightly below performance 
expectations, 3.5% to 5.5% meeting or slightly exceeding performance expectations, and 6% to 7% clearly above performance expectations. 
Based on this approach to assessing performance against the 2018 Performance Measurement Framework milestones, the Committee agreed 
a 16.5% outcome out of a maximum of 20%. The assessment is provided in the following table.

This section explains how our Directors' remuneration policy was implemented during 2018.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 113

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Category and key outcomes Measure Performance Outcome
Customer and 
Client:

Building trust with 
customers and 
clients so they 
are happy to 
recommend us

Successfully 
innovating and 
developing products 
and services that 
meet their needs

Offering suitable 
products and 
services in an 
accessible way, 
ensuring excellent 
customer and client 
experience 

Net Promoter 
Scores® (NPS) 

■■ The NPS across our brands provide a view of how willing customers are to recommend 
our products and services to others. 

■■ Barclays UK relationship NPS has increased to +17 (2017: +14).
■■ Barclaycard UK relationship NPS stayed flat over the year closing at +9 at year-end 

(2017: +9).
■■ The Relationship NPS of the US Consumer Bank increased further to +38 (2017: +36) 

supported by our customer centric culture and improvements in our products and 
digital experience.

5%

Client rankings 
and market 
shares

■■ Our Markets franchise delivered strong performance as it increased market sharea in 
each asset class, delivered five consecutive quarters of outperformance vs peers, and 
maintained its 4th place ranking in Global Fixed Income market share (Greenwich). 
Banking maintained its 6th rank by fee share in our UK and US home market and 
retained top 3 position in the UK (Dealogic).

■■ 95% of largest UK corporate clients considered service to be good, very good or 
excellent, up from 88% in 2017 (Charterhouse).

Complaints 
performance

■■ Total Barclays UK complaint volumes (including PPI) down 1% from 2017. Underlying 
UK complaint volumes reduced by 9% year-on-year excluding PPI. However, PPI 
complaints were up 2%. 

Lending 
volumes 
provided to 
customers and 
clients

■■ We provided new lending of £2.8bn to SMEs in the UK, 3% more than last year, despite 
overall volumes 6% down as we continued to exert high levels of discipline in capital 
allocation to strengthen long-term sustainability.

■■ We also completed over 110,000 mortgage applications worth c£23bn (up 1.5% from 
2017). 

Digital 
engagement

■■ Over 10.8m customers and clients in the UK were using our digital services on a regular 
basis, 6% more than in 2017, with Barclays Mobile Banking user base up from 5.5m to 
nearly 6.2m.

■■ 69% of US Consumer Bank customers now digitally active, up from 66% in 2017.
■■ Barclays Mobile Banking is the most used mobile banking app in UK (eBenchmarkers). 

It was also the first core app from a major UK high street bank to enable account 
aggregation through Open Banking technology.

Conduct 
indicators

■■ Conduct Risk has been effectively managed using Key Indicators reported to the Board 
Reputation Committee as part of the Conduct Dashboard. Further information is 
provided in the Risk Review section.

Colleague:

A diverse and 
inclusive workforce 
in which employees 
of all backgrounds 
are treated equally 
and have the 
opportunity to be 
successful and 
achieve their 
potential

Engaged and 
enabled colleagues

A positive conduct 
and values-based 
culture

Diversity and 
Inclusion 
statistics

■■ In our Your View employee opinion survey, 91% of our employees agreed that we 
provide the right environment to bring their whole selves to work.

■■ We were also proud to be recognised through a number of external awards in 2018 
including, The Times Top 50 Employers for Women, Stonewall Top Global Employer 
for LGBT employees, Working Families UK Best for Embedded flexibility for Dynamic 
Working, UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, Department of Work and Pensions 
Disability Confident Leader, Business in the Community Best Employer for Race.

■■ Our gender diversity, particularly at senior leadership levels within the organisation, 
remains a focus: the percentage of female Directors and Managing Directors has 
improved to 24% (23% in 2017), but there is still progress to be made. We increased our 
activities on the development of our senior female leadership population and expanded 
our Encore! Programme to attract more female returners.

5.5%

Employee 
sustainable 
engagement 
survey scores

■■ Sustainable engagement scores increased to 79%, up 4 points from 2016 (last all 
colleague survey).

■■ Our scores around Energise and Engage were also up 5 and 4 points to 83% and 88% 
respectively, both above Financial Services Companies norms, and our Enable score was 
up 5% to 65%.

Conduct and 
Culture 
measures

■■ Encouragingly, our Values results have improved since Q4 2017. We saw a notable 
increase on the question, ‘Is it safe to speak up at Barclays', which went from 77% 
to 86%.

■■ A similar increase is noted on the question ‘Barclays is focused on achieving good 
customer and client outcomes' (92% favourable, 2016: 83%). 

Note
a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays' internal business structure.

<Page End><Page Start>
114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

Category and key outcomes Measure Performance Outcome
Citizenship:

Making decisions 
and doing business 
in a way that 
provides our 
clients, customers, 
shareholders, 
colleagues and 
the communities 
which we serve 
with access to a 
prosperous future

Proactively 
managing the 
environmental and 
societal impacts 
of our business

Delivery against 
our Shared 
Growth 
Ambition

■■ Target exceeded on our annual internal milestones for the focus area of ‘Access 
to financing'.

■■ ‘Access to digital and financial empowerment' also exceeded target.
■■ Target exceeded on our annual internal milestones for the focus area of ‘Access 

to employment'.
■■ Volumes for selected social and environmental segments: facilitated £27.3bn in social 

and environmental financing. We expanded our green product portfolio, including the 
launch of the first Green Mortgage for retail customers by a mainstream UK institution.

■■ We helped support around 260,000 people with access to financial and digital 
empowerment in 2018 (2017: 205,000).

■■ We helped improve the skills of over 2.4m people in 2018 (2017: 2.1m), driven by a range 
of employability partnerships around the world. 

6%

Proactively 
managing 
environmental 
and societal 
impacts

■■ We exceeded target on carbon emissions: reduced emissions by 38% against the 2015 
baseline (target 30%).

■■ We released statements on our approach to Ramsar Wetlands and World Heritage Sites, 
as well as a comprehensive statement on energy and climate (which strengthened and 
replaced our previous coal statement).

■■ On-time payment to our suppliers was 82%, falling short of our target of 85%. 
Performance was in part impacted by a change in systems during the year.

Colleague 
engagement in 
citizenship 
activities 

■■ We celebrate our colleague engagement and participation through our annual 
Citizenship Awards. 2018 was the 21st anniversary of the Awards, which saw almost 
1,500 employees nominated. 

■■ 87% of colleagues who responded to the annual Your View employee survey are proud 
of Barclays' contribution to the community and society, above the global Financial 
Services Companies norm.

External 
benchmarks 
and surveys

■■ Our performance was broadly stable across a set of ratings. Institutional Shareholder 
Services (ISS) released new environmental and social quality scores to assess corporate 
disclosures. On a 1-10 scale (‘1' highest), Barclays was rated ‘1' for social reporting and 
‘2' for environmental reporting.

■■ The FTSE4Good ESG rating remained flat at 4.3/5. Barclays was rated as A- in the 2018 
Carbon Disclosure Project climate disclosure survey, up from B in 2017.

16.5% out of 20%

Further details on the Performance Measurement Framework can be found on pages 18 to 27.

Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives
Individual performance against each of the executive Directors' personal objectives (20% weighting overall) was assessed by the Committee 
(objectives as set out on page 109 of the 2017 Annual Report).

The below summarises their performance against the shared personal objectives. 

Shared objectives for Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria Outcomes
Deliver on 2018 financial goals such that 
we remain on track to achieve our 
returns targets

■■ Financial goals delivered and on track to achieve external returns targets in 2019 and 2020. 
■■ Strong financial improvements in PBT and RoTE and maintenance of CET1 in end-state range. 

2018 RoTE close to 2019 target of greater than 9%.
Seek opportunities for further cost 
savings and optimise the capital 
allocation within the Group

■■ 2018 cost target of £13.9bn achieved.
■■ Capital allocation optimised and deployed to key strategic areas.

Complete the Structural Reform 
programme successfully, ensuring the 
UK ring-fenced bank is fully operational

■■ Structural Reform programme largely completed, including the stand-up of the ring-fenced bank 
in the UK. This was completed in April and is recognised as one of the biggest technological shifts 
carried out in financial services, requiring a huge coordinated effort from teams across the Bank.

Finalise the implementation plan for an 
effective Brexit outcome

■■ The Group is operationally prepared for the UK to leave the EU, with an extended licence for 
Barclays Bank Ireland in place and the entity prepared to be fully operational by the end of 
March 2019.

Continue to drive strategic initiatives to 
enhance growth in shareholder value in 
the medium term

■■ The Committee noted the strategic initiatives to improve returns to shareholders, both within the 
businesses and also through our state-of-the-art operating platform, Barclays Execution Services.

■■ In 2018, based on strong capital position, the restoration of the dividend to 6.5p, and the 
redemption of the expensive preference shares dating from the financial crisis, saw us deploy 
around £1.8bn of capital. While this represents progress, we acknowledge that it is not yet 
sufficient.

Manage risk and control effectively and 
make continued progress in resolving 
outstanding conduct matters

■■ Significant improvements in the control environment resulting from the wide-ranging Barclays 
Improved Controls Enhancement Programme (BICEP) work.

■■ Major outstanding legacy conduct matters resolved, including reaching a reasonable settlement 
with the US Department of Justice in relation to RMBS, and having the UK SFO charges relating 
to the 2008 fundraising against the bank dismissed.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 115

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

In addition to the shared personal objectives described above, the below summarises Jes Staley's performance against the objectives specific to him.

Jes Staley's objectives Outcomes
Continue to strengthen the Bank's 
cyber readiness, operational and 
financial controls

■■ Significant progress to strengthen controls in relation to cyber readiness, operations and financial 
reporting, including through the BICEP work.

■■ Cybersecurity enhanced with a second joint operation centre opened in Whippany, New Jersey to 
enhance our ability to monitor and address incidents on a global basis.

■■ Both operational issues and risk events have reduced significantly during 2018.
Further improve customer and client 
satisfaction, with a particular focus on 
reducing the number of overall complaints

■■ Jes Staley has been instrumental in upgrading key talent that has led to strong performance in 
the Markets business which has increased market sharea in each asset class and delivered five 
consecutive quarters of outperformance vs peers. Banking maintained its 6th rank in UK and US 
and remained top 3 in UK.

■■ Similarly, within customer satisfaction, Barclays UK NPS increased to +17 from +14 in 2017.
■■ Jes Staley has driven a focus on customer outcomes across the bank with his senior executive teams, 

reducing the number of overall complaints in Barclays UK (including PPI) 1% from 2017, while 
underlying UK complaint volumes reduced by 9% year-on-year excluding PPI (PPI complaints were 
up 2%).

As part of the ongoing succession 
planning for Group and Business Unit/
Functional Executive Committees, 
continue the focus on improving the 
percentage of women in senior 
leader positions

■■ While the percentage of females in senior leadership positions is increasing slowly, Jes Staley has 
personally taken accountability for trying to redress the historic gender imbalance at our most 
senior levels.

■■ In 2018, key initiatives included the work of the Global Gender Task Force, responsible for the 
Women's Managing Director Forum, as well as the extension of the ex-officio role (a rotating position 
on senior management committees providing opportunities for talented individuals to contribute) 
from the Group Executive Committee down through the organisation.

■■ Jes Staley also personally launched a set of 2019 specific initiatives which are aiming to make the 
biggest difference most quickly to the proportion of women in senior leadership positions.

Recognising his very strong performance against both his individual and shared personal objectives during 2018, the Committee judged that 17% 
of a maximum of 20% attributable to personal objectives was appropriate.

The below summarises Tushar Morzaria's performance against the objectives specific to him.

Tushar Morzaria's objectives Outcomes
Demonstrate effective management of 
external relationships and reputation

■■ Feedback from the Board, regulators and investors continues to show that Tushar Morzaria 
is extremely well respected internally and externally, and that the management of external 
relationships and reputation of the Group remains strong.

Continue to strengthen team performance 
(especially following the creation of the 
Group Service Company), talent base and 
employee engagement in Group Finance, 
Tax and Treasury

■■ The performance of the Finance function has continued to strengthen, with a diverse and 
experienced management team in place and good sustainable engagement scores.

The Committee also recognised Tushar Morzaria's very strong performance (against both his individual and shared personal objectives) during 
2018, and judged that 18% out of a maximum of 20% attributable to personal objectives was appropriate.

(i) Jes Staley
A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley is provided in the following table.

Performance measure Weighting 2018 Outcome
Financial See table on page 112 60% 14.8%
Strategic See table on pages 113 to 114 20% 16.5%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment 20% 17.0%
Total 100% 48.3%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 48.3%

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 48.3% of maximum bonus opportunity being 
achieved. The Committee considered the outcome and noted that a 2018 annual bonus of £1,061,000 (of which 62% is deferred under the Share 
Value Plan) is slightly down against his 2017 annual bonus outcome, and therefore is not reflective of the improved performance observed. The 
Committee reflected on the disconnect between the positive financial and strategic performance across the Group and the relatively low outcomes 
against the financial measures given the extremely stretching financial targets in the annual bonus plan. Based on a balanced assessment across 
all of the relevant factors, including recognising share price performance (while not solely attributable to the executive Directors), the Committee 
decided that the outcome would remain at £1,061,000.

(ii) Tushar Morzaria
A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria is provided in the following table. 

Performance measure Weighting 2018 Outcome
Financial See table on page 112 60% 14.8%
Strategic See table on pages 113 to 114 20% 16.5%
Personal objectives Judgemental assessment 20% 18.0%
Total 100% 49.3%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 49.3%

Note
a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays' internal business structure.

<Page End><Page Start>
116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 49.3% of maximum bonus opportunity 
being achieved. The Committee considered the outcome and again noted that a 2018 annual bonus of £729,000 (of which 45% is deferred under 
the Share Value Plan) was slightly down against his 2017 annual bonus outcome despite stronger Group performance (financial and non-
financial). Similar to the assessment for Jes Staley, it decided that the outcome would remain at £729,000.

In line with the DRP, and due to the regulations prohibiting dividend equivalents being paid on unvested deferred share awards, the number 
of shares awarded to each executive Director under the Share Value Plan will be calculated using a share price at the date of award, discounted 
to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period. The valuation will be aligned to IFRS 2, with the market expectations 
of dividends during the deferral period being assessed by an independent adviser. These shares will vest in two equal tranches on the first and 
second anniversary (subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time). All shares (whether deferred or not) are subject 
to a further one-year holding period from the point of release. 2018 bonuses are subject to clawback provisions and, additionally, unvested deferred 
2018 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses (including to nil).

LTIP
The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzaria's 2018 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the 
LTIP award granted in 2016 in respect of the performance period 2016-2018 (by reference to Q4 2018 average share price). As Jes Staley was not 
a participant in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him. Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over 
the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 with straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points. The 
performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows: 

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual
% of award 

vesting
Average return 
on tangible equity 
(RoTE) excluding 
material itemsa

25% 6.25% of award vests for RoTE of 7.5% RoTE of 10.0% 5.6% 0%
CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest. 
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and 
regulatory requirements (11.3% in 2018).

CET1 ratio as at  
31 December 2018

25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of 
11.6%

CET1 ratio of 12.7% 13.2% 25%

Cost: income ratio 
excluding material 
itemsa

20% 5% of award vests for average cost: 
income ratio of 66%

Average cost: income ratio of 58% 70% 0%

Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input 
from the Group Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee 
as appropriate, to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 
0% and 15%. Since its introduction in 2016, the Risk Scorecard has been aligned by 
the Committee to the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the 
regulators. Following this alignment, the current framework measures performance 
against three broad categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and 
Conduct – using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.

10%

Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to 
determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. Each 
of the 5Cs in the Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting. Assessment was made 
against the Balanced Scorecard targets established at the beginning of the 
performance period.

4%

Total 39%
Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 39%

Note
a Material items include PPI, gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited and own credit in 2016; PPI, losses relating to the sell down of BAGL and a one-off net charge 

due to the remeasurement of US deferred tax assets in 2017; PPI and settlement with regard to RMBS in 2018.

A summary of the Committee's assessment against the Risk Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period is provided 
below.

Category Weighting Performance Outcome
Capital & Liquidity 5% ■■ Stress test results showed improvement over the period. Although Barclays did not meet its 

CET1 systemic reference points in 2016, no revised capital plans were required in light of the 
steps already taken. In 2017, the Bank of England recognised that the increases in CET1 capital 
and in Tier 1 leverage ratios over the year were sufficient for Barclays to meet the systemic 
reference points in the test. Barclays passed the 2018 test.

■■ Group CET1% grew from 11.4% to 13.2% over the period, and remained comfortably above 
the regulatory minimum throughout.

■■ Our liquidity risk appetite measure and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio remained above targets.

4%

Controls 5% ■■ The Control Environment is monitored by senior management and the Board via various 
reports, dashboards and deep dives. Summary ratings are also used to track improvement 
and remediation plans.

■■ These summary ratings improved over the period, notably following the completion of the 
BICEP. This programme facilitated the resolution of the most material control issues, and 
implemented a system of tracking and reporting risk events and controls issues against 
a new Controls Maturity Model.

3%

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 117

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Category Weighting Performance Outcome
Conduct 5% ■■ The Conduct category focuses on internal forward-looking tools:

 – the Conduct dashboard showed a downward trend in conduct issues and complaints 
alongside an upward trend in confidence with respect to speaking up about potential 
conduct risks and issues, although a need for continued focus remains

 – the occurrence of conduct breaches among senior leaders is referenced, in particular 
as a leading cultural indicator reflecting ‘tone from the top'. The number of occurrences 
remained negligible throughout the year.

3%

Total 15% 10%

A summary of the Committee's assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measures over the three year performance period 
is provided below.

Category Weighting Performance Outcome
Customer and Client 3% ■■ While positive progress has been made, with Barclays UK relationship NPS up to +17 (2017: 

+14; 2016: +10), the very ambitious target of ranking 1st against peers has not been achieved.
■■ Similarly, Client Franchise Rank performance was at 5th and 6th over the period, below the 

plan target of top 3.

0%

Colleague 3% ■■ Good progress has been made in colleague engagement, increasing from 75% in 2016 to 78% 
in 2017 and to 79% in 2018. However this fell below the very stretching plan target of 
87%-91%.

■■ Continued improvement of +1% per year in the percentage of women in senior leadership 
roles to 24% at the end of 2018. This falls below the plan target of 26% (calibrated including 
the BAGL business). Had BAGL continued to have been included, the outcome would have 
been c2% higher and the target would have been achieved.

1%

Citizenship 3% ■■ The plan targets were exceeded on four measures (access to financing, financial and digital 
empowerment, access to employment and carbon emissions reduction).

■■ Barclays Way training was on-track.
■■ On-time payment to our suppliers exceeded targets for the first 2 years, but fell short in 2018 

in part due to a change in systems which impacted performance during the year.

2%

Conduct 3% ■■ Conduct Reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, remained at 5.2-5.4 over the period 
and below our plan target of 6.5.

0%

Company 3% ■■ RoE and RoTE targets established to deliver greater than cost of equity in 2018. While there 
has been positive trajectory towards the 2019 and 2020 external commitments, the time frame 
was ambitious and returns are not yet at that level.

■■ Cost:income ratio plan target of below 60%. This has improved but there is still further 
progress required to achieve a ratio below 60%.

■■ Significant strengthening in the CET1 ratio over the period, with the ratio now within 
our end-state target range of c.13% and exceeding 100-150 basis points above the 
regulatory minimum.

1%

Total 15% 4%

The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the 
Group. The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be considered for release at 
39% of the maximum number of shares under the total award. The shares are scheduled to be released in March 2019. After release, the shares 
are subject to an additional two-year holding period.

(i) LTIP awards granted during 2017
The performance measures for the awards made under the 2017-2019 LTIP cycle are as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Average return 
on tangible equity 
(RoTE) excluding 
material items

25% 6.25% of award vests for RoTE excluding material 
items of 7.5%

RoTE excluding material items of 9.5%

CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest. The threshold will 
be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements (11.7% on 
31 December 2019).

CET1 ratio as at
31 December 2019

25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio 100 basis 
points above the mandatory distribution restrictions 
(MDR) hurdle (currently 11.7%) 

CET1 ratio 200 basis points above the MDR hurdle

Cost: income ratio 
excluding material 
items

20% 5% of award vests for average cost:
income ratio of 63%

Average cost: income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment 
framework reviewed with the regulators. The current framework measures performance against three broad 
categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct – using a combination of quantitative 
and qualitative metrics. The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk 
strategy. Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. 
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2019 Remuneration report.

<Page End><Page Start>
118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Strategic non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, 

with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category. Performance 
against the strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage 
of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. The measures are organised around three main categories: 
Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. 
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate 

and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients
■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee sustainable 

engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures
■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities 

and external benchmarks and surveys.

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.

The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.

(ii) LTIP awards granted during 2018
An award was made to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria on 8 March 2018 under the 2018-2020 LTIP at a share price of £1.7775, which has been 
discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in accordance with our DRP. This is the price used to calculate 
the face value below.

% of 
Total fixed pay

Number of
shares

Face value 
at grant

Performance 
period

Jes Staley 120% 1,853,891 3,295,200 2018-2020
Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,248,980 2,220,000 2018-2020

The performance measures for the 2018-2020 LTIP awards are as follows:

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Average return on 
tangible equity 
(RoTE) excluding
material items

50% 10% of award vests for RoTE of 7.75%
(based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c.13%)

RoTE of 10.25%

Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period:
■■ if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle (currently 11.7%) in any year of the period, no part of the RoTE 

element will vest
■■ if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle +150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, the 

Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element should vest, based 
on the causes of the CET1 reduction.

Average cost: income 
ratio excluding 
material items

20% 4% of award vests for average cost: income 
ratio of 62.5%

Average cost: income ratio of 58%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment 
framework reviewed with the regulators. The current framework measures performance against three broad 
categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct – using a combination of quantitative 
and qualitative metrics. The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk 
strategy. Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. Retrospective 
disclosure will be made in the 2020 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.

Strategic non-
financial

15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, 
with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category. Performance 
against the strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage 
of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. The measures are organised around three main categories: 
Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. 
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, client rankings and market shares for the CIB, 

complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients
■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee sustainable 

engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures
■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities 

and external benchmarks and surveys. 

Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.

The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 119

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

LTIP awards to be granted during 2019
The Committee decided to make an award under the 2019-2021 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria (based on their performance in 2018) 
with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2018.

The 2019-2021 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.

Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting
Average return on tangible 
equity (RoTE) ex litigation 
and conduct and other 
material items

50% 10% of award vests for RoTE of 8.5%
(based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c.13%)

RoTE of 10.5%

Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period:
■■ if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle (currently 11.7%) in any year of the performance period, no part 

of the RoTE element will vest
■■ if CET1 goes below the end-state target (c.13%) but remains above the hurdle during the year, the 

Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element should vest, 
based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.

2021 Cost: income ratio ex 
litigation and conduct and 
other material items

20% 4% of award vests for cost: income ratio of 60% Cost: income ratio of 58.5%

Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment 
framework shared with the regulators. The current framework measures performance against three broad 
categories – Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct – using a combination of quantitative 
and qualitative metrics. The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk 
strategy. Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive. 
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2021 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity 
no longer remaining.

Strategic non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, 
with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category. 
Performance against the strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine 
the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%. The measures are organised around 
three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories 
has equal weighting. Measures will likely include, but not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the 

Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers 
and clients

■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee 
sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures

■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship 
activities and external benchmarks and surveys.

Matters for which the Committee has exercised discretion
As previously announced, malus was applied to Jes Staley's 2016 variable compensation, reducing the awarded value by £500,000.

<Page End><Page Start>
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2019
The following chart provides an illustrative indication of how 2019 remuneration will be delivered to the executive Directors.

2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Implementation in 2019

Fixed  
Pay

Cash No change from 2018
■■ Jes Staley £2,350,000
■■ Tushar Morzaria £1,650,000

Shares Released in equal tranches over 5 years

Pension Cash in 
lieu of 
pension

No change from 2018
■■ Jes Staley £396,000
■■ Tushar Morzaria £200,000

Annual 
bonus

Perfo
rm

an
ce p

erio
d

Cash 80% of Total fixed pay

Shares
Holding 
period

Shares
Holding 
period

Shares
Holding 
period

LTIP*

P
relim

in
ary  

p
erfo

rm
an

ce p
erio

d

Perfo
rm

an
ce p

erio
d

Shares
Holding 
period

120% of Total fixed pay

Shares
Holding 
period

Shares
Holding 
period

Shares
Holding 
period

Shares
Holding 
period

* This assumes an LTIP award made in 2020 in line with the current Policy.

2019 Annual bonus performance measures
Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support 
the key strategic objectives of the Company. The performance measures and weightings are shown below.

Financial  
(60% weighting)

A performance target 
range has been set for 
each financial measure

■■ Profit before tax excluding litigation and conduct and other material items (50% weighting). 
Payout of this element will depend on the CET1 ratio during the performance year:

 – if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle (currently 11.7%) during the performance year, no part of the PBT element 
will pay out

 – if CET1 goes below the end-state target (c.13%) but remains above the hurdle during the year, the Committee 
will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the PBT element should pay out, based on the causes 
of the CET1 reduction.

■■ Cost: income ratio excluding litigation and conduct and other material items (10% weighting).
Strategic non-financial  
(20% weighting)

The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, with 
a detailed retrospective narrative on progress during the year against each category. Performance against the 
strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that 
may vest between 0% and 20%. The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, 
Colleague and Citizenship. Each of the three main categories has equal weighting. Measures will likely include, but 
will not be limited to, the following:
■■ Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate 

and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients
■■ Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics (including women in senior leadership), Employee sustainable 

engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures
■■ Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and 

external benchmarks and surveys.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 121

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Personal  
(20% weighting)

The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2019:
■■ continue to deliver improving shareholder returns, whilst retaining the focus on delivering the 2019 and 2020 

external targets and specifically profitability of the CIB.
■■ identify opportunities for further cost efficiencies, enabling reinvestment into strategic priorities
■■ leverage the new Barclays Execution Services platform to drive our technology agenda across both trading entities 

to improve customer and client experience and enhance value
■■ respond to emerging Brexit decisions, managing risks appropriately for the Group, while continuing to support 

our customers and clients in the UK.

In addition, individual personal objectives for 2019 are as follows:
Jes Staley
■■ oversee the effective management of the risk and controls agenda, including cyber risks
■■ further improve customer and client satisfaction, with continued focus on complaint reduction
■■ develop further a high performing culture in line with our Values, continuing to focus on employee engagement; 

the talent pipeline for Group, Business and Functional Executive Committees with a particular emphasis on 
improving the percentage of women in senior leadership roles

■■ effectively manage relationships with key external stakeholders and society more broadly.

Tushar Morzaria
■■ demonstrate effective management of external relationships, particularly regulators and investors
■■ oversee the effective management of the risk and controls agenda in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury
■■ progress finance transformation programme and drive benefits across Group Finance, Tax and Treasury
■■ continue to develop talent base, employee engagement and gender diversity in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury.

Illustrative scenarios for executive Directors' remuneration
The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors' 2019 total remuneration in three main scenarios: ‘Minimum' 
(i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension and benefits), ‘Mid-point' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and 50% of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded) 
and ‘Maximum' (i.e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded). For the purposes of these charts, the value 
of benefits is based on an estimated annual value for 2019 regular contractual benefits. Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas 
relocation of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.

A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance related. It is also subject to 
deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback. Ahead of the new reporting requirements, we have provided an indication of the maximum 
remuneration receivable, assuming share price appreciation of 50% on the LTIP.

Total remuneration opportunity:
Group Chief Executive (£m)

Total 8.29

Total 9.94

Maximum 

Maximum with share price increase

0 1062 4 8

12% 12% 4% 22% 33% 17%

42%

Minimum Total 2.80

Total 5.55Mid-point

42%

21% 21%

16%

8% 20% 30%

14% 14% 5% 27% 40%

 Fixed cash  Fixed shares  Pension and benefits

 Bonus  LTIP  Illustrative share price increase

Total remuneration opportunity:
Group Finance Director (£m)

43%

Minimum Total 1.90

Total 3.75

Total 5.60

Mid-point

Maximum

0 1062 4 8

43%

22% 22%

15% 15%

14%

6% 20% 30%

4% 26% 40%

Total 6.71Maximum with share price increase
12% 12% 4% 22% 17%33%

 Fixed cash  Fixed shares  Pension and benefits

 Bonus  LTIP  Illustrative share price increase

 
Performance graph and table
The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2018 in terms of total shareholder 
return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index. The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section 
of leading UK companies.

Total shareholder return – rebased to 100 in 2008

2008

Barclays PLC
FTSE 100 Index 

Year ended 31 December

2009

250

2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 20162014 2017

180 174

140

183
210

193 182

217
243

2018

222

127
144

120

155
183 185 178 187

172

130

<Page End><Page Start>
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

The table below provides pay ratios of the Group Chief Executive's total remuneration (as disclosed in the single total remuneration figure table) to 
the remuneration of UK employees. The ratio varies from year to year primarily due to variations in the CEO total remuneration figures, e.g. where 
there are changes in CEO, or variations in LTIP payouts (in some years, the Group Chief Executive may not be a participant in a vesting LTIP).

The ratio of CEO remuneration for each reference point (LQ, median and UQ) has decreased from 2016 (the first full year of service for the current 
CEO) to 2018, primarily due to lower bonus outcomes for the CEO. The CEO was not a participant in any LTIP that vested during this period. Over 
the same period, the figure for the LQ UK employee has risen 10%. It should be noted that these ratios may increase in 2019, as this will be the first 
year an LTIP, in which the CEO is a participant reaches the end of its performance period and may therefore result in a vesting outcome for the CEO.

Year 2009 2010 2011 2012a 2013 2014 2015a 2016 2017 2018

Group Chief Executive
John

Varley
John

Varley
Bob

Diamond
Bob

Diamondb
Antony 
Jenkinsc

Antony
Jenkins

Antony
Jenkins

Antony
Jenkinsc

John 
 McFarlaned

Jes
Staleye

Jes
Staley

Jes
Staley

Jes
Staley

Single total remuneration 
figure CEO 2,050 4,567 11,070f 1,892 529 1,602 5,467g 3,399 305 277 4,233 3,873 3,362i

Annual bonus award  
as a % of max 0% 100% 80% 0% 0% 0% 57% 48% N/A N/A 60% 48.5% 48.3%
Long-term incentive plan 
vesting as a % of max 50% 16% N/Ah 0% N/Ah N/Ah 30% 39% N/Ah N/Ah N/Ah N/Ah N/Ah

UK employee LQ 106 x 232 x 552 x 118 x 77 x 254 x 183 x 195 x 173 x 141 x

UK employee median 75 x 165 x 391 x 84 x 54 x 175 x 126 x 137 x 119 x 96 x

UK employee UQ 40 x 87 x 206 x 44 x 28 x 92 x 66 x 70 x 61 x 51 x

Notes
a Where there was more than one Group Chief Executive in a year, the pay ratio references the sum of the Group Chief Executive single total figures for that year.
b Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012.
c Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015.
d John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015. His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.  

He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
e Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015.
f This figure includes £5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report. Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be offset 

by a double tax treaty.
g Antony Jenkins' 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years. 
h Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period. 
i As required, the single total remuneration figure includes an adjustment made to Jes Staley's 2016 variable compensation in 2018. 2018 outcome excluding the malus adjustment 

is £3,862k and the ratios would be LQ: 162x, Median: 110x, UQ: 58x

Percentage change in Group Chief Executive's remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive's salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compared 
with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.

We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative for pay structure comparisons.

Fixed Pay Benefits Annual bonus
Group Chief Executive 0% -11% 0%
Average based on UK employeesa 2% 0% 10%

Note
a Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group
The table below shows the number of employees in the Barclays Group as at 31 December 2017 and 2018 in bands by reference to total 
remuneration. Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.

Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group

Remuneration band
Number of employees

2018 2017
£0 to £25,000 31,846 31,406
£25,001 to £50,000 25,770 24,280
£50,001 to £100,000 18,478 17,604
£100,001 to £250,000 10,804 9,818
£250,001 to £500,000 2,197 2,113
£500,001 to £1,000,000 916 811
£1,000,001 to £2,000,000 306 262
£2,000,001 to £3,000,000 82 70
£3,000,001 to £4,000,000 19 21
£4,000,001 to £5,000,000 6 5
£5,000,001 to £6,000,000 11 7
Above £6,000,000 6 4

Barclays is a global business. Of those employees earning above £1m in total remuneration for 2018 in the table above, 56% are based in the US, 
36% in the UK and 8% in the rest of the world.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 123

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Relative importance of spend on pay
A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders are shown below.

Group compensation costs (£m)

0 2,500 5,000 7,500

2018 £7,346

2017 £7,123



Dividends to shareholders (£m)

0 200 400 600 800

2018 £768

2017 £509

Total incentive awards granted – current year
Barclays Group

% Change

Year ended
31.12.18

£m

Year ended
31.12.17

£m

Incentive awards granted 
Bonus pool  1,582  1,432 (10)
Commissions and other incentives  67 74
Total incentive awards granted  1,649 1,506 (9)

Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge: 
Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year (359) (302) (19)
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 299 457 35
Other (33) 29
Income statement charge for performance costs 1,556 1,690 8
Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred 33% 31%

Chairman and non-executive Directors
Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities, time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors 
of comparable major UK companies.

Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons. Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid 
by Barclays. The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business 
purposes.

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2018 fees (audited)
Fees Benefits Total

2018
£000

2017
£000

2018
£000

2017
£000

2018
£000

2017
£000

Chairman
John McFarlane 800 800 1 2 801 802
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 215 215 – – 215 215
Tim Breedon 225 225 – – 225 225
Sir Ian Cheshirea 480 360 – – 480 360
Mary Anne Citrinob 39 – – – 39 –
Mary Francisc 154 135 – – 154 135
Crawford Gilliesd 222 195 – – 222 195
Sir Gerry Grimstonee 498 375 – – 498 375
Reuben Jeffery III 120 120 – – 120 120
Matthew Lesterf 135 45 – – 135 45
Dambisa Moyo 135 135 – – 135 135
Diane Schuenemang 337 308 – – 337 308
Mike Turnerh 105 – – – 105 –
Diane de Saint Victori – 38 – – – 38
Steve Thiekej – 87 – – – 87
Total 3,465 3,038 1 2 3,466 3,040

Notes
a Sir Ian Cheshire's 2018 figure includes fees of £400,000 for his role as Chairman of Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
b Mary Anne Citrino joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 July 2018. Her fees are therefore pro-rated for the period of her appointment. 
c Mary Francis succeeded Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chair of the Board Reputation Committee with effect from 1 April 2018. 
d Crawford Gillies was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 April 2018 and the 2018 figures includes the pro-rated amount for the period of his appointment. 
e Sir Gerry Grimstone was appointed Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC with effect from 1 April 2018 and subsequently stepped down as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent 

Director and Chair of the Board Reputation Committee. The 2018 figure reflects this and also includes fees of £400,000 for his role as Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC Board and 
his previous appointment as Chairman of the BI Divisional Board for the period 1 January-31 March 2018. 

f Matthew Lester joined the Board a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017.
g Diane Schueneman was appointed Chair of Barclays Services Limited (the Group Service Company) with effect from 1 September 2017 and is a member of the Barclays US LLC 

(the US Intermediate Holding Company) Board. The 2018 figure includes fees of £70,000 for her role on the Barclays Services Limited Board and $177k (£132k) for her role on the 
Barclays US LLC Board.

h Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. 
i Diane de Saint Victor retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017.
j Steve Thieke retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017.

<Page End><Page Start>
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2019
2019 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.

1 January 2019
£000

1 January 2018
£000

Chairmana 800 800
Deputy Chairmanb 250 250
Board member 80 80
Additional responsibilities
Senior Independent Directorc 36 30
Chairman of Board Audit, Remuneration or Risk Committee 70 70
Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50
Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30
Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25
Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15

Notes
a The Chairman does not receive any other additional responsibilities fees in addition to the Chairman fees. 
b Following the appointment of Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC with effect from 1 April 2018, it was deemed not necessary to fill the position of Deputy 

Chairman. However, the position remains available should Barclays consider it necessary and beneficial to the Company to appoint a Deputy Chairman in the future.
c The Board approved an increase to the Senior Independent Director fees effective 1 April 2018. The increase in fees was approved in line with the DRP and took account 

of comparable market data and the Senior Independent Director role being performed independently of the Deputy Chairman role.

Payments to former Directors
Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas
In 2018, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive Income 
Protection Plan (EIPP). Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors' Remuneration report (page 115 of the 
2013 Annual Report). Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2018.

Directors' shareholdings and share interests
Executive Directors' shareholdings and share interests (audited)
The chart below shows the value of Barclays' shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 19 February 2019 that count towards 
the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays' shares worth 200% of Total fixed pay (i.e. Fixed Pay plus Pension). The current executive 
Directors have five years from their respective date of appointment to meet this requirement. At close of business on 19 February 2019, the market 
value of Barclays' ordinary shares was £1.59.

Jes Staley (£000)

Requirement £5,492

Actual £7,729



Tushar Morzaria (£000)

Requirement £3,700

Actual £4,525

Interests in Barclays PLC shares (audited)
The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject to 
either deferral terms and/or performance measures. The shares shown below that are subject to performance measures are the maximum 
number of shares that may be released.

Owned outright

Unvested Total as at 
31 December 2018 

(or date of retirement 
from the Board, if earlier)

Total as at 
19 February 

2019

Subject to
 performance 

measures

Not subject to 
performance 

measures
Executive Directors
Jes Staleya 4,860,720 3,539,846 555,540 8,956,106 8,956,106
Tushar Morzaria 2,845,752 3,593,456 502,392 6,941,600 6,941,600
Chairman
John McFarlane 99,139 – – 99,139 99,139
Non-executive Directors
Mike Ashley 115,706 – – 115,706 115,706
Tim Breedon 45,342 – – 45,342 45,342
Sir Ian Cheshire 91,202 – – 91,202 91,202
Mary Anne Citrinob 2,000 – – 2,000 2,000
Mary Francis 22,030 – – 22,030 22,030
Crawford Gillies 85,975 – – 85,975 85,975
Sir Gerry Grimstone 119,311 – – 119,311 119,311
Reuben Jeffery III 301,963 – – 301,963 301,963
Matthew Lester 17,703 – – 17,703 17,703
Dambisa Moyo 67,606 – – 67,606 67,606
Diane Schueneman 39,462 – – 39,462 39,462
Mike Turnerc 65,334 – – 65,334 65,334

Notes
a Jes Staley's shareholding was reduced by 216,997 shares as a result of application of malus.
b Mary Anne Citrino joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 July 2018.
c Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 125

Strategic report
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

G
overn

an
ce

Barclays Board Remuneration Committee
The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays' remuneration as described in more detail below.

Terms of Reference
The role of the Committee is to:
■■ set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group
■■ consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of (i) the Chairman, (ii) the executive Directors, (iii) members of the Barclays Group 

Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and (iv) all other Group employees whose 
total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time (currently £2m)

■■ exercise oversight for remuneration issues.

The Committee considers the overarching objectives, principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group to ensure it is adopting 
a coherent approach in respect of all employees. In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy is transparent, 
avoids complexity and assesses, among other things, the impact of pay arrangements in supporting the Group's culture, values and strategy and 
on all elements of risk management. The Committee also approves incentive pools for each of the Group, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and operations and functions, periodically reviews at least annually all material matters of retirement benefit design and governance, and ensures 
that the remuneration policy promotes the alignment of the long-term interests of shareholders and employees. The Committee and its members 
work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised to select and appoint its own advisers as required.

The Terms of Reference can be found at home.barclays/corporategovernance

Chairman and members
The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows:
■■ Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015
■■ Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012
■■ Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016
■■ Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.

All current members are considered independent by the Board.

Remuneration Committee attendance in 2018
Meetings attended/eligible to attend

Crawford Gillies 5/5
Tim Breedon 5/5
Mary Francis 5/5
Dambisa Moyo 4/5a

Note
a Dambisa Moyo was unable to attend one meeting due to a conflicting commitment, but her views and comments were made available to, and considered by the Committee.

The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review. The results of the review were positive and 
concluded that the Committee is composed of the right level of experience and skills. Full details of the Board Effectiveness Review can be found 
on page 71.

Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) was appointed as the independent adviser to the Committee in October 2017. The Committee is satisfied that 
the advice provided by PwC to the Committee is independent and objective. PwC is a signatory to the voluntary UK Code of Conduct for executive 
remuneration consultants.

PwC was paid £85,500 (excluding VAT) for their advice to the Committee in 2018 relating to the executive Directors (either exclusively or along 
with other employees within the Committee's Terms of Reference). In addition to advising the Committee, PwC provided unrelated consulting 
advice to the Group in respect of strategic advice on business, operational models and cost, corporate taxation, climate-related financial 
disclosures, data strategy, technology consulting and internal audit. 

Throughout 2018, Willis Towers Watson (WTW) continued to provide the Committee with market data on compensation when considering 
incentive levels and remuneration packages. WTW were paid £65,000 (excluding VAT) in fees for their services. In addition to the services provided 
to the Committee, WTW also provides pensions advice, advice on health and benefits provision, assistance and technology support for employee 
surveys for the Group and pensions advice and administration services to the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.

In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director 
and the Group Reward and Performance Director. The Group Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and 
business financial performance and risk profile respectively.

No Barclays' employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration. 
No other advisers provided services to the Committee in the year. 

<Page End><Page Start>
126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Annual report on Directors' remuneration
Governance: Remuneration report

Remuneration Committee activity in 2018
The following provides a summary of the Committee's activity during 2018 and at the January and February 2019 meetings at which 2018 
remuneration decisions were finalised.

Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other mattersa

January 2018 ■■ 2017 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments
■■ 2017 bonus proposals for senior executives

■■ Non-executive Directors' fees for subsidiary boards

February 2018 ■■ Approved final 2017 incentive funding, including risk adjustments
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior executives' 

2017 bonuses and 2018-2020 LTIP awards for executive Directors
■■ Group fixed pay budgets for 2018
■■ Approved executive Directors' and senior executives' 2018 

Fixed Pay
■■ Approved executive Directors' annual bonus performance 

measures for 2018

■■ Approved 2017 Reward communications approach
■■ Review of Committee effectiveness

July 2018 ■■ 2018 ex-ante risk adjustment methodology
■■ 2018 incentive funding framework

■■ Barclays Fair Pay Agenda
■■ Update on the establishment of subsidiary 

Remuneration Committees
October 2018 ■■ 2018 incentive funding projections, including risk adjustments

■■ Annual review of Group Chairman's remuneration
■■ Update on Barclays UK remuneration approach

■■ Barclays Fair Pay Agenda

December 2018 ■■ Initial consideration on executive Directors' and senior executives' 
2018 bonuses and 2019 Fixed Pay

■■ 2019 bonus approach for executive Directors
■■ 2019-2021 LTIP performance measures
■■ 2018 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments
■■ Update on Barclays UK remuneration approach

■■ Annual review of Committee activity, Terms of 
Reference and Control Framework

■■ Non-executive Directors' fees for subsidiary boards

January 2019 ■■ 2018 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments
■■ 2018 bonus proposals for senior executives

February 2019 ■■ Approved final 2018 incentive funding, including risk adjustments
■■ Approved proposals for executive Directors' and senior executives' 

2018 bonuses and 2019-2021 LTIP awards for executive Directors
■■ Group fixed pay budgets for 2019
■■ Approved 2019 executive Directors' annual bonus performance 

measures

■■ Review of Board Remuneration Committee 
Effectiveness

■■ Approved 2018 Reward communications approach

Note
a The Committee is also provided with updates at each scheduled meeting on: regulatory and stakeholder matters, Finance and Risk, Remuneration Review Panel meetings, 

operation of the Committee's Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination, headcount and employee attrition, and extant LTIP performance.

There were also two additional Remuneration Committee meetings during the course of 2018. The Committee met on 10 May 2018 to consider 
the application of malus to Jes Staley's 2016 variable compensation. On 26 October 2018 the Committee met in respect of remuneration 
arrangements for the Group Chairman-designate.

Statement of shareholder voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration report at the AGM held on 1 May 2018 and the last policy vote at the AGM 
on 10 May 2017:

For
% of votes cast

Number

Against
% of votes cast

Number
Withheld
Number

Advisory vote on the 2017 remuneration report 95.96% 4.04%
12,059,206,433 507,845,058 104,289,376

Binding vote on the Directors' remuneration policy 97.91% 2.09%
12,062,616,141 257,416,828 51,369,054

At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, shareholders of Barclays PLC voted 96.02% (10,364,453,159 votes) for the resolution in respect of a fixed to 
variable remuneration ratio of 1:2 for ‘Remuneration Code Staff ' (now known as MRTs). On 14 December 2017, the Board of Barclays PLC as 
shareholder of Barclays Bank PLC approved the resolution that Barclays Bank PLC and any of its current and future subsidiaries be authorised to 
apply a ratio of the fixed to variable components of total remuneration of their MRTs that exceeds 1:1, provided the ratio does not exceed 1:2. 
On 15 November 2018, the Board of Barclays PLC as shareholder of Barclays Bank UK PLC approved an equivalent resolution in relation to MRTs 
within Barclays Bank UK PLC and any of its subsidiaries.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 127

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Contents

Risk management
Annual 
Report

Pillar 3 
Report

Overview of Barclays' approach to risk 
management. A detailed overview together 
with more specific information on policies 
that Barclays Group determines to be of 
particular significance in the current 
operating environment can be found in 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 or at 
Barclays.com.

■■ Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) 129 136
■■ Principal risks 129 136
■■ Risk appetite for the principal risks 129 136
■■ Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk 129 136
■■ Frameworks, policies and standards n/a 138
■■ Assurance n/a 139
■■ Effectiveness of risk management arrangements n/a 139
■■ Learning from our mistakes n/a 139
■■ Barclays' risk culture 130 139
■■ Barclays Group-wide risk management tools n/a 139
■■ Risk management in the setting of strategy n/a 142

Material existing and emerging risks
Insight into the level of risk across our 
business and portfolios, the material 
existing and emerging risks and 
uncertainties we face and the key 
areas of management focus.

■■ Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting 
more than one principal risk 131 n/a

■■ Credit risk 133 n/a
■■ Market risk 134 n/a
■■ Treasury and capital risk 134 n/a
■■ Operational risk 134 n/a
■■ Model risk 135 n/a
■■ Conduct risk 135 n/a
■■ Reputation risk 136 n/a
■■ Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters 136 n/a

Principal risk management
Barclays' approach to risk management 
for each principal risk with focus on 
organisation and structure and roles 
and responsibilities.

■■ Credit risk management 137 143
■■ Management of credit risk mitigation techniques and counterparty 

credit risk n/a 160
■■ Market risk management 139 163
■■ Management of securitisation exposures n/a 171
■■ Treasury and capital risk management 140 175
■■ Operational risk management 143 182
■■ Model risk management 145 186
■■ Conduct risk management 146 188
■■ Reputation risk management 147 190
■■ Legal risk management 148 192

Risk performance
Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm 
from the failure of clients, customers 
or counterparties, including sovereigns, 
to fully honour their obligations to the firm, 
including the whole and timely payment 
of principal, interest, collateral and 
other receivables.

■■ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 150 n/a
■■ Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer 150 n/a
■■ Expected Credit Losses 153 n/a
■■ Movements in gross exposure and impairment allowance including 

provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees 156 n/a
■■ Management adjustments to models for impairment 158 n/a
■■ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 159 n/a
■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 164 n/a
■■ Barclays Group's approach to management and representation 

of credit quality 166 n/a
■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 169
■■ Forbearance 171 n/a
■■ Analysis of debt securities 174 n/a
■■ Analysis of derivatives 175 n/a

Market risk: The risk of a loss arising from 
potential adverse changes in the value 
of the firm's assets and liabilities from 
fluctuation in market variables including, 
but not limited to, interest rates, foreign 
exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, 
credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

■■ Market risk overview and summary of performance 177 115
■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 178 116
■■ Review of management measures 179 117
■■ Review of regulatory measures 180 117

Risk review

The management of risk is a critical underpinning to the 
execution of Barclays' strategy. The material risks and 
uncertainties the Barclays Group faces across its business 
and portfolios are key areas of management focus.

Barclays' risk disclosures are provided in the Annual Report and in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018.

<Page End><Page Start>
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Contents

Risk performance continued
Annual 
Report

Pillar 3 
Report

Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity: 
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its 
contractual or contingent obligations or that 
it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and 
liquidity to support its assets.

■■ Liquidity risk overview and summary of performance 183 n/a
■■ Liquidity risk stress testing 183 n/a
■■ Liquidity pool 185 n/a
■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 186 n/a
■■ Encumbrance 188 n/a
■■ Credit ratings 192 n/a
■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 193 n/a

Treasury and capital risk – Capital: 
The risk that the firm has an insufficient 
level or composition of capital to support 
its normal business activities and to meet 
its regulatory capital requirements under 
normal operating environments or stressed 
conditions (both actual and as defined for 
internal planning or regulatory testing 
purposes). This includes the risk from 
the firm's pension plans.

■■ Capital risk overview and summary of performance 197 n/a
■■ Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 198 9
■■ Analysis of capital resources 198 19
■■ Analysis of risk weighted assets 200 27
■■ Analysis of leverage ratio and exposures 201 32
■■ Foreign exchange risk 202 36
■■ Pension risk review 203 37
■■ Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities 204 n/a

Treasury and capital risk – Interest rate risk 
in the banking book: The risk that the firm 
is exposed to capital or income volatility 
because of a mismatch between the interest 
rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets 
and liabilities.

■■ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and summary 
of performance 205 38

■■ Net interest income sensitivity 206 38
■■ Analysis of equity sensitivity 206 38
■■ Volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool 207 39

Operational risk: The risk of loss to the 
firm from inadequate or failed processes 
or systems, human factors or due to external 
events (for example fraud) where the root 
cause is not due to credit or market risks.

■■ Operational risk overview and summary of performance 208 132
■■ Operational risk profile 209 133

Model risk: The risk of the potential 
adverse consequences from financial 
assessments or decisions based on incorrect 
or misused model outputs and reports.

■■ Model risk overview and summary of performance 211 n/a

Conduct risk: The risk of detriment 
to customers, clients, market integrity, 
competition or Barclays from the 
inappropriate supply of financial 
services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

■■ Conduct risk overview and summary of performance 212 n/a

Reputation risk: The risk that an action, 
transaction, investment or event will reduce 
trust in the firm's integrity and competence 
by clients, counterparties, investors, 
regulators, employees or the public.

■■ Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 213 n/a

Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition 
of penalties, damages or fines from 
the failure of the firm to meet its legal 
obligations including regulatory or 
contractual requirements.

■■ Legal risk overview and summary of performance 214 n/a

Supervision and regulation
Barclays Group's operations, including its 
overseas offices, subsidiaries and associates, 
are subject to a significant body of rules 
and regulations.

■■ Supervision of Barclays Group 215 n/a
■■ Global regulatory developments 216 n/a
■■ Financial regulatory framework 217 n/a

Pillar 3 Report
Contains extensive information on risk 
as well as capital management.

■■ Summary of risk and capital profile n/a 4
■■ Notes on basis of preparation n/a 6
■■ Scope of application of Basel rules n/a 7

Risk and capital position review: Provides 
a detailed breakdown of Barclays' regulatory 
capital adequacy and how this relates to 
Barclays' risk management.

■■ Group capital resources, requirements, leverage and liquidity n/a 17
■■ Analysis of credit risk n/a 41
■■ Analysis of counterparty credit risk n/a 96
■■ Analysis of market risk n/a 115
■■ Analysis of securitisation exposures n/a 121
■■ Analysis of operational risk n/a 132

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 129

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk management
Barclays Group's risk management strategy

Risk review

Introduction
The activities of Barclays Group entail risk 
taking, every day, throughout its business. 
This section introduces these risks, and 
outlines arrangements for identifying 
and managing them. Barclays Group's 
approach to fostering a strong risk culture 
is also described.

Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk 
management by defining standards, objectives 
and responsibilities for all areas of Barclays 
Group. It supports senior management in 
effective risk management and developing 
a strong risk culture.

The ERMF sets out:
■■ principal risks faced by Barclays Group
■■ risk appetite requirements
■■ roles and responsibilities for risk 

management
■■ Risk committee structure.

Principal risks
The ERMF identifies eight principal risks 
(see table on page 29 of the Strategic Report) 
and sets out associated responsibilities and 
risk management standards.

Risk appetite for the 
principal risks
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk 
which Barclays Group is prepared to accept 
in the conduct of its activities.

Risk appetite is approved and disseminated 
across legal entities and businesses, with 
limits specified to control exposures and 
activities that have material concentration 
risk implications for Barclays Group.

Roles and responsibilities 
in the management of risk
The Three Lines of Defence
All colleagues are responsible for 
understanding and managing risks within 
the context of their individual roles and 
responsibilities, as set out below.

First Line of Defence
The First Line of Defence comprises all 
employees engaged in the revenue generating 
and client facing areas of Barclays Group and 
all associated support functions, including 
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and 
the Chief Operating Office (COO) function. 
Employees in the First Line are responsible for:
■■ identifying the risks in their activities and 

developing appropriate policies, standards 
and controls 

■■ operating within any and all limits which 
the Risk and Compliance functions establish 
over the exposures and activities of the 
first line; and

■■ escalating risk events to senior managers 
in Risk and Compliance.

Second Line of Defence
The Second Line of Defence comprises 
employees of Risk and Compliance. The role 
of the Second Line is to establish the limits, 
rules and constraints under which First Line 
activities shall be performed, consistent with 

the risk appetite of Barclays Group, and to 
monitor the performance of the First Line 
against these limits and constraints. Note that 
the First Line may also set limits for a number 
of their activities related to operational risk. 
These will remain subject to supervision by 
the Second Line.

Third Line of Defence
The Third Line of Defence comprises 
employees of Internal Audit. They provide 
independent assurance to the Barclays Board 
and Barclays Group Executive Management 
over the effectiveness of governance, risk 
management and control.

The Legal function does not sit in any of the 
three lines, but supports them all. The Legal 
function is, however, subject to oversight 
from Risk and Compliance with respect to 
operational and conduct risks.

Risk committees
Product/risk type committees consider 
risk matters relevant to their business, 
and escalate as required to the Group Risk 
Committee (GRC), whose Chairman, in turn, 
escalates to Barclays PLC Board Committees 
and the Barclays PLC Board.

There are three Board-level forums which 
oversee the application of the ERMF and 
review and monitor risk across the 
Barclays Group. These are: the Barclays PLC 
Board Risk Committee, the Barclays PLC 
Board Audit Committee, and the Barclays PLC 
Board Reputation Committee. Additionally, 
the Barclays PLC Board Remuneration 
Committee oversees pay practices focusing 
on aligning pay to sustainable performance. 
Finally, the Barclays PLC Board receives 
regular information on the risk profile of 
Barclays Group, and has ultimate responsibility 
for risk appetite and capital plans. 

Barclays  
PLC Board  

Risk  
Committee

Barclays  
PLC Board  

Audit  
Committee

Barclays  
PLC Board 
Reputation 
Committee

Barclays  
PLC Board 

Remuneration 
Committee

Barclays Group Risk Committee Barclays Group 
Remuneration 
Review Panel

Barclays
Group ExCo

Barclays Group  
Product/Risk Type Committees

Barclays PLC Board
Board Committees

Management Level 
Committees/Forums

Business Level 
Committees/Forums

<Page End><Page Start>
130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk management
Barclays Group's risk management strategy

The Barclays PLC Board
One of the Board's responsibilities is the 
approval of risk appetite (refer to page 139 
of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 
(unaudited)). The Barclays Group CRO 
regularly presents a report to the Board 
summarising developments in the risk 
environment and performance trends in the 
key portfolios. The Board is also responsible 
for the ERMF.

Summaries of the relevant skills, experience 
and background of the Directors of the Board 
are presented in the Board of Directors section 
on pages 51 to 52. 

The Barclays PLC Board Risk 
Committee (BRC)
The BRC monitors Barclays Group's risk profile 
against the agreed appetite. Where actual 
performance differs from expectations, the 
actions taken by management are reviewed 
to ascertain that the BRC is comfortable with 
them. After each meeting, the Chairman of 
the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting 
of the Board. All members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. 

The BRC receives regular reports on risk 
methodologies, the effectiveness of the 
risk management framework, and Barclays 
Group's risk profile, including the material 
issues affecting each business portfolio and 
forward risk trends. The committee also 
commissions in-depth analyses of significant 
risk topics, which are presented by the 
Barclays Group CRO or senior risk managers 
in the businesses. The Chairman of the BRC 
also sits on the BAC.

The Barclays PLC Board Audit 
Committee (BAC)
The BAC receives regular reports on the 
effectiveness of internal control systems, 
quarterly reports on material control issues 
of significance, and quarterly papers on 
accounting judgements (including 
impairment). It also receives a half-yearly 
review of the adequacy of impairment 
allowances, which it reviews relative to the 
risk inherent in the portfolios, the business 
environment and Barclays Group's policies 
and methodologies. The Chairman of the 
BAC also sits on the BRC.

The Barclays PLC Board Reputation 
Committee (RepCo)
The RepCo reviews management's 
recommendations on conduct and reputation 
risk and the effectiveness of the processes by 
which Barclays Group identifies and manages 
these risks. It also reviews and monitors the 
effectiveness of Barclays Group's citizenship 
strategy, including the management of 
Barclays Group's economic, social and 
environmental contribution.

The Barclays PLC Board Remuneration 
Committee (RemCo)
The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk 
management performance and risk profile, 
and proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk 
adjustments to variable remuneration. 
These inputs are considered in the setting 
of performance incentives.

The terms of reference and additional 
details on membership and activities for 
each of the principal Board Committees are 
available from the Corporate Governance 
section of Barclays Group's website at:  
home.barclays/about-barclays/
barclays-corporate-governance.html.

Barclays Group's risk culture
Risk culture can be defined as the ‘norms, 
attitudes and behaviours related to risk 
awareness, risk taking and risk management'. 
At Barclays Group this is reflected in how 
colleagues identify, escalate and manage 
risk matters.

Our Code of Conduct – the Barclays Way
Globally, all colleagues must attest to the 
‘Barclays Way', our Code of Conduct, and all 
frameworks, policies and standards applicable 
to their roles. The Code of Conduct outlines 
the purpose and values which govern our 
Barclays Way of working across our business 
globally. It constitutes a reference point 
covering the aspects of colleagues' working 
relationships, with other Barclays Group's 
employees, customers and clients, 
governments and regulators, business 
partners, suppliers, competitors and the 
broader community.

Embedding of a values-based, 
conduct culture
Conduct, culture and values remain a priority 
of the Barclays Group Executive Committee 
who receive regular, detailed information from 
the business lines, and clearly communicate 
their intentions and the Barclays Group's 
progress to all colleagues. The effectiveness 
of the risk and control environment, for which 
all colleagues are responsible, depends on 
the continued embedment of strong values. 
Colleagues must be willing to meet their risk 
management responsibilities and escalate 
issues on a timely basis. Refer to the Board 
Reputation Committee report on page 73 
for further details.

Induction programmes support new 
colleagues in understanding how risk 
management culture and practices support 
how Barclays Group does business and the 
link to Barclays Group's values. The Leadership 
Curriculum covers the building, sustaining and 
supporting of a trustworthy organisation and 
is offered to colleagues globally.

Other risk culture drivers
In addition to values and conduct, we consider 
the following determinants of risk culture:
■■ management and governance: this means 

a consistent tone from the top and clear 
responsibilities to enable risk identification 
and challenge

■■ motivation and incentives: the right 
behaviours are rewarded and modelled

■■ competence and effectiveness: this means 
that colleagues are enabled to identify, 
escalate and resolve risk and control matters

■■ integrity: colleagues are willing to meet 
their risk management responsibilities, 
and escalate issues on a timely basis.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 131

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Material existing and 
emerging risks to Barclays 
Group's future performance
Material risks are those to which senior 
management pay particular attention and 
which could cause the delivery of Barclays 
Group's strategy, results of operations, 
financial condition and/or prospects to differ 
materially from current expectations.

Emerging risks are those which have largely 
unknown components, the impact of which 
could crystallise over a longer time horizon. 
These could currently be considered 
immaterial but over time may individually or 
cumulatively affect Barclays Group's strategy 
and cause the same outcomes as material 
risks. In addition, certain factors beyond 
Barclays Group's control, including escalation 
of terrorism or global conflicts, natural 
disasters and similar calamities, although not 
detailed below, could have a similar impact 
on Barclays Group.

The risks described below are material 
existing and emerging risks which senior 
management has identified with respect 
to Barclays Group.

Material existing and 
emerging risks potentially 
impacting more than one 
principal risk
i) Business conditions, general economy 
and geopolitical issues
The Barclays Group business mix spreads 
across multiple geographies and client types. 
The breadth of these operations means that 
deterioration in the economic environment, 
or an increase in political instability in 
countries where Barclays Group is active, 
or in any systemically important economy, 
could adversely affect Barclays Group's 
operating performance, financial condition 
and prospects.

Although economic activity continued to 
strengthen globally in 2018, a change in 
global economic conditions and the reversal 
of the improving trend may result in lower 
client activity in Barclays Group, including 
lower demand for borrowing from 
creditworthy customers, and/or a reduction 
in the value of related collateral and/or an 
increase of Barclays Group's default rates, 
delinquencies, write-offs, and impairment 
charges, which in turn could adversely affect 
Barclays Group's performance and prospects. 
Deteriorating economic conditions could also 
impact the ability of Barclays Group to raise 
funding from external investors. In addition, 
a shift in the forward looking consensus view 
of economic conditions may materially impact 
the models used to calculate expected credit 
losses (ECL), where an increase in ECLs could 
adversely affect Barclays Group's profitability. 

In several countries, reversals of capital 
inflows, as well as fiscal austerity, have already 
caused deterioration in political stability. 

This could be exacerbated by a renewed 
rise in asset price volatility or sustained 
pressure on government finances. In addition, 
geopolitical tensions in some areas of the 
world are at risk of further deterioration, thus 
potentially increasing market uncertainties 
and adverse global economic and market 
conditions, which in turn could adversely 
affect Barclays Group's profitability in certain 
geographical locations.

In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the 
European Union (EU), see ii) Process of UK 
withdrawal from the European Union below, 
has given rise to political uncertainty with 
potential consequences for investment and 
market confidence. The initial impact was a 
depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher 
costs for companies exposed to imports and 
a more favourable environment for exporters. 
Rising domestic costs resulting from higher 
import prices may impact household incomes 
and the affordability of consumer loans and 
mortgages, resulting in reduced business and, 
thereby, negatively impacting Barclays Group's 
profitability. In turn this may affect businesses 
dependent on consumers for revenue, 
exacerbated by current pressures on 
businesses dependent on discretionary 
purchases. There has also been a reduction 
in activity in both commercial and residential 
real estate markets which has the potential 
to impact the value of real estate assets 
and adversely affect mortgage assets. 
Furthermore, continued uncertainty in the 
withdrawal process could have a detrimental 
effect in the economic environment in 
continental Europe, which may negatively 
impact Barclays Group's business in specific 
Eurozone countries.

In the US, where the economy outperformed 
other key markets in 2018, there is the 
possibility of significant continued changes 
in policy in sectors including trade, healthcare 
and commodities which may have an impact 
on associated Barclays Group portfolios. 
A significant proportion of Barclays Group's 
portfolio is located in the US, including a 
major credit card portfolio and a range of 
corporate and investment banking exposures. 
Stress in the US economy, weakening GDP 
and the associated exchange rate fluctuations, 
heightened trade tensions, an unexpected rise 
in unemployment and/or an increase in 
interest rates could lead to increased levels 
of impairment, resulting in a negative impact 
on Barclays Group's profitability.

As anticipated, most major central banks have 
started tightening their monetary policies in 
2018 and there remains a possibility that this 
will continue. The risk of large capital flows 
spawned by divergent or differently timed 
policies remains, and this will continue to 
provide financial market turbulence, in 
particular in emerging market economies. 
This may negatively impact Barclays Group's 
business in the affected regions, under both 
profiles of credit and market risk.

Sentiment towards emerging markets as a 
whole continues to be driven in large part by 
developments in China, where there is some 

concern around the ability of authorities 
to manage growth while transitioning from 
manufacturing towards services. Although 
the Chinese government's efforts to stably 
increase the weight of domestic demand have 
had some success, the pace of credit growth 
remains a concern, given the high level of 
leverage and despite regulatory action. 
A stronger than expected slowdown could 
result if authorities fail to appropriately 
manage the end of the investment and 
credit-led boom.

Deterioration in emerging markets could 
affect Barclays Group if it results in higher 
impairment charges for Barclays Group via 
sovereign or counterparty defaults.

More broadly, a deterioration of conditions 
in the key markets where Barclays Group 
operates could affect performance in a 
number of ways including, for example: 
(i) deteriorating business, consumer or 
investor confidence indirectly having a 
material adverse impact on GDP growth in 
significant markets and therefore on Barclays 
Group's performance; (ii) mark to market 
losses in trading portfolios resulting from 
changes in factors such as credit ratings, 
share prices and solvency of counterparties; 
(iii) reduced ability to obtain capital from 
other financial institutions for Barclays Group's 
operations; and (iv) lower levels of fixed asset 
investment and productivity growth overall.

ii) Process of UK withdrawal from 
the European Union
The uncertainty around Brexit spanned the 
whole of 2018, and intensified in the second 
half of the year. The full impact of the 
withdrawal may only be realised in years to 
come, as the economy adjusts to the new 
regime, but Barclays Group continues to 
monitor the most relevant risks, including 
those that may have a more immediate 
impact, for its business.

■■ Market volatility, including in currencies 
and interest rates, might increase which 
could have an impact on the value of 
Barclays Group's trading book positions.

■■ Potential UK financial institutions' credit 
spread widening could lead to reduced 
investor appetite for Barclays Group's debt 
securities; this could negatively impact the 
cost of, and/or access to, funding. There is 
potential for continued market and interest 
rate volatility. This volatility could affect 
underlying interest rate risk value of the 
assets in the banking book and securities 
held by Barclays Group for liquidity purposes.

■■ A credit rating agency downgrade applied 
directly to Barclays Group, or indirectly as 
a result of a credit rating agency downgrade 
to the UK Government, could significantly 
increase Barclays Group's borrowing costs, 
credit spreads and materially adversely 
affect Barclays Group's interest margins 
and liquidity position.

■■ Changes in the long-term outlook for UK 
interest rates may adversely affect pension 
liabilities and the market value of 
investments funding those liabilities.

Risk review

Material existing and emerging risks

<Page End><Page Start>
132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Material existing and emerging risks

■■ Increased risk of a UK recession with 
lower growth, higher unemployment and 
falling UK house prices. This would likely 
negatively impact a number of Barclays 
Group's portfolios, notably: higher Loan 
to Value mortgages, UK unsecured lending 
including credit cards and commercial 
real estate exposures.

■■ The implementation of trade and customs 
barriers between the UK and EU could lead 
to delays and increased costs in the passage 
of goods for corporate banking customers. 
This could negatively impact the levels of 
customer defaults and business volumes 
which may result in an increase in Barclays 
Group's impairment charges and a reduction 
in revenues.

■■ Changes to current EU ‘Passporting' 
rights may require further adjustment 
to the current model for Barclays Group's 
cross-border banking operation which 
could increase operational complexity 
and/or costs.

■■ The ability to attract, or prevent the 
departure of, qualified and skilled employees 
may be impacted by the UK's and the 
EU's future approach to the EU freedom 
of movement and immigration from the 
EU countries and this may impact Barclays 
Group's access to the EU talent pool.

■■ The legal framework within which Barclays 
Group operates could change and become 
more uncertain if the UK takes steps to 
replace or repeal certain laws currently 
in force, which are based on EU legislation 
and regulation (including EU regulation of 
the banking sector) following its withdrawal 
from the EU. Certainty around the ability 
to perform existing contracts, enforceability 
of certain legal obligations and uncertainty 
around the jurisdiction of the UK courts 
may be affected until the impacts of the 
loss of the current legal and regulatory 
arrangements between the UK and EU 
and the enforceability of UK judgements 
across the EU are fully known.

■■ Should the UK lose automatic qualification 
to be part of Single Euro Payments Area 
there could be a resultant impact on the 
efficiency of, and access to, European 
payment systems. In addition, loss of 
automatic qualification to the European 
Economic Area (EEA) or access to Financial 
Markets Infrastructure including exchanges, 
central counterparties and payment services 
could impact service provision for clients, 
likely resulting in reduced market share 
and revenue and increased operating costs 
for Barclays Group.

■■ There are certain execution risks relating 
to the transfer of Barclays Group's European 
businesses to Barclays Bank Ireland Group. 
Technology change could result in outages 
or operational errors leading to delays in the 
transfer of assets and liabilities to Barclays 
Bank Ireland Group, and delayed delivery 
could lead to European clients losing access 
to products and service and increased 
reputational risk.

iii) Interest rate rises adversely impacting 
credit conditions
To the extent that central banks increase 
interest rates particularly in Barclays Group's 
main markets, in the UK and the US, there 
could be an impact on consumer debt 
affordability and corporate profitability.

While interest rate rises could positively 
impact Barclays Group's profitability, as retail 
and corporate business income may increase 
due to margin decompression, future interest 
rate increases, if larger or more frequent 
than expectations, could cause stress in the 
lending portfolio and underwriting activity of 
Barclays Group. Higher credit losses driving an 
increased impairment allowance would most 
notably impact retail unsecured portfolios 
and wholesale non-investment grade lending.

Changes in interest rates could have an 
adverse impact on the value of high quality 
liquid assets which are part of the Barclays 
Group Treasury function's investment activity. 
Consequently, this could create more volatility 
than expected through Barclays Group's 
FVOCI reserves.

iv) Regulatory change agenda and impact 
on business model
Barclays Group remains subject to ongoing 
significant levels of regulatory change and 
scrutiny in many of the countries in which it 
operates (including, in particular, the UK and 
the US). As a result, regulatory risk will remain 
a focus for senior management and consume 
significant levels of business resources. 
Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory 
approach and enhanced requirements 
together with the uncertainty (particularly 
in light of the UK's withdrawal from the EU) 
and potential lack of international regulatory 
co-ordination as enhanced supervisory 
standards are developed and implemented 
may adversely affect Barclays Group's 
business, capital and risk management 
strategies and/or may result in Barclays Group 
deciding to modify its legal entity, capital and 
funding structures and business mix, or to 
exit certain business activities altogether 
or not to expand in areas despite otherwise 
attractive potential.

Barclays Bank UK Group was established on 
1 April 2018 as the ring-fenced entity under 
Barclays Group. The relevant rules required to 
comply with the UK ring-fencing regime are 
complex and will continue to entail significant 
costs and operational and legal risks. There 
may be a risk associated with the uncertainty 
around interpretation, administration and 
enforcement of the ring-fencing regime as 
the regulatory requirements develop. This risk 
is compounded by the potential for different 
regulatory interpretation as standards are 
developed, the impact of the UK's withdrawal 
from the EU and internal factors, such as 
Barclays Group's strategy. Failure to maintain 
ongoing compliance, including from the 
implementation of any new regulatory 
requirements that may potentially be 
enforced, could result in regulatory 
censure or penalties for Barclays Group.

There are several other significant pieces 
of legislation and areas of focus which will 
require significant management attention, 
cost and resource, including:
■■ Changes in prudential requirements 

(including the risk reduction measures 
package recently adopted in the EU to 
amend the Capital Requirements Directive 
(CRD IV) and the Bank Recovery and 
Resolution Directive (BRRD)) may impact 
minimum requirements for own funds 
and eligible liabilities (MREL) (including 
requirements for internal MREL), leverage, 
liquidity or funding requirements, applicable 
buffers and/or add-ons to such minimum 
requirements and risk weighted assets 
calculation methodologies all as may be set 
by international, EU or national authorities. 
Such or similar changes to prudential 
requirements or additional supervisory and 
prudential expectations, either individually 
or in aggregate, may result in, among other 
things, a need for further management 
actions to meet the changed requirements, 
such as: increasing capital, MREL or liquidity 
resources, reducing leverage and risk 
weighted assets; restricting distributions 
on capital instruments; modifying the 
terms of outstanding capital instruments; 
modifying legal entity structure (including 
with regard to issuance and deployment 
of capital, MREL and funding); changing 
Barclays Group's business mix or exiting 
other businesses; and/or undertaking 
other actions to strengthen Barclays Group's 
position. (See Treasury and capital risk 
on pages181 to 207 and Supervision 
and regulation on pages 215 to 222 for 
more information).

■■ The derivatives market has been the subject 
of particular focus for regulators in recent 
years across the G20 countries and beyond, 
with regulations introduced which require 
the reporting and clearing of standardised 
over the counter (OTC) derivatives and the 
mandatory margining of non-cleared OTC 
derivatives. Other regulations applicable to 
swap dealers, including those promulgated 
by the US Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, have imposed significant costs 
on Barclays Group's derivatives business. 
The increased regulation of swaps and 
security-based swaps may also result in 
other increases in costs for market 
participants, as well as reduced liquidity 
in the markets for such instruments, 
which could cause further increases in 
costs and volatility. These and any future 
requirements, including the US SEC's 
regulations relating to security-based swaps 
and the possibility of overlapping and/or 
contradictory requirements imposed on 
derivative transactions by regulators in 
different jurisdictions, are expected to 
continue to impact such business in the 
same manner.

More broadly, compliance with the evolving 
regulatory framework entails significant costs 
for market participants and is having a 
significant impact on certain markets in which 
Barclays Group operates. The recast Markets 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 133

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

in Financial Instruments Directive in Europe 
(MiFID II), which came into force in January 
2018, has fundamentally changed the 
European regulatory framework entailing 
significant operational changes for market 
participants in a wide range of financial 
instruments as well as changes in market 
structures and practices. In addition, the EU 
Benchmarks Regulation, which also came 
into force in January 2018, regulates the use 
of benchmarks in the EU. In particular, after 
1 January 2020 certain Barclays Group entities 
will not be permitted to use benchmarks 
unless the relevant administrator is authorised, 
registered or qualifies under a third-party 
regime. This may necessitate adapting 
processes and systems to transition to new 
alternative benchmarks, which would be 
a very time-consuming and costly process. 
Separately, the transition to risk-free rates 
as part of a wider benchmark reform is also 
expected to be impactful to Barclays Group 
in respect of the timing of the development 
of a robust risk free rate market, an 
unfavourable market reaction and/or 
inconsistencies in the adoption of products 
using the new risk free rates, and also in 
respect of the costs and uncertainties involved 
in managing and/or changing historical 
products to reference risk free rates as a result 
of the proposed discontinuation of certain 
existing benchmarks. 
■■ Barclays Group and certain of its members 

are subject to supervisory stress testing 
exercises in a number of jurisdictions. These 
exercises currently include the programmes 
of the BoE, the EBA, the FDIC and the FRB. 
These exercises are designed to assess the 
resilience of banks to adverse economic or 
financial developments and enforce robust, 
forward looking capital and liquidity 
management processes that account for 
the risks associated with their business 
profile. Assessment by regulators is on both 
a quantitative and qualitative basis, the 
latter focusing on Barclays Group's or 
certain of its members' business model, 
data provision, stress testing capability 
and internal management processes and 
controls. The stress testing requirements to 
which Barclays Group and its members are 
subject are becoming increasingly stringent. 
Failure to meet requirements of regulatory 
stress tests, or the failure by regulators to 
approve the stress test results and capital 
plans of Barclays Group, could result in 
Barclays Group being required to enhance 
its capital position, limit capital distributions 
or position additional capital in specific 
subsidiaries. For more information on stress 
testing, refer to Supervision and regulation 
on page 218.

■■ The introduction and implementation of 
both Payments Service Directive 2 (PSD2) 
and the Open API standards and data 
sharing remedy from the UK Competition 
and Markets Authority following its Retail 
Banking Market Investigation Order 
(together ‘Open Banking') from January 
2018 with delivery across 2019 provides 
third parties and banks with opportunities 
to change and enhance the relationship 

between a customer and their bank. It does 
this by providing customers with the ability 
to share their transactional data with 
authorised third-party service providers 
either for aggregation or payment services. 
It is anticipated that both aggregation and 
payment services will be offered by third 
parties to Barclay Group's customers and 
Barclays Group itself has launched an 
aggregation service. PSD2 will also introduce 
new requirements to the authentication 
process for a number of actions customers 
take, including ecommerce transactions. 
A failure to comply with Open Banking 
requirements could expose Barclays Group 
to regulatory sanction. Further, the data 
sharing regime could mean that actions or 
omissions by third-party service providers 
could expose Barclays Group to potential 
financial loss from third-party fraud, misuse 
of customer data, litigation and reputational 
detriment, amongst other things. The 
changes to authentication may change the 
fraud environment across the industry as 
providers implement different approaches 
to comply.

Material existing and 
emerging risks impacting 
individual principal risks 
i) Credit risk
a) Impairment
The introduction of the impairment 
requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, 
implemented on 1 January 2018, results 
in impairment loss allowances that are 
recognised earlier, on a more forward looking 
basis and on a broader scope of financial 
instruments than has been the case under 
IAS 39 and has had, and may continue to 
have, a material impact on Barclays Group's 
financial condition.

Measurement involves increased complex 
judgement and impairment charges will tend 
to be more volatile, particularly under stressed 
conditions. Unsecured products with longer 
expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, 
are the most impacted. Taking into account 
the transitional regime, the capital treatment 
on the increased reserves has the potential 
to adversely impact regulatory capital ratios.

In addition, the move from incurred to 
expected credit losses has the potential to 
impact Barclays Group's performance under 
stressed economic conditions or regulatory 
stress tests. For more information, refer to 
Note 1 on pages 264 to 267.

b) Specific sectors and concentrations
Barclays Group is subject to risks arising from 
changes in credit quality and recovery rate 
of loans and advances due from borrowers 
and counterparties in a specific portfolio. 
Any deterioration in credit quality could lead 
to lower recoverability and higher impairment 
in a specific sector. The following are areas 
of uncertainties to Barclays Group's portfolio 
which could have a material impact 
on performance:

■■ UK retailers. Softening demand, rising costs 
and a structural shift to online is fuelling 
pressure on the UK High Street. Whilst we 
have not seen any material impact, as the 
UK retailer market repositions itself the 
trend represents a potential risk in our UK 
corporate portfolio.

■■ Consumer affordability has remained a 
key area of focus for regulators, particularly 
in unsecured lending, driven by the growth 
in levels of borrowing. Macroeconomic 
factors, such as rising unemployment, 
that impact a customer's ability to service 
unsecured debt payments could lead to 
increased arrears in unsecured products. 

■■ UK real estate market. UK property 
represents a significant portion of the 
overall Barclays Group retail and corporate 
credit exposure. In 2018, property price 
growth across the UK continued, however, 
this growth has slowed in London and the 
South East where Barclays Group's exposure 
has high concentration. Barclays Group 
is at risk of increased impairment from 
a material fall in property prices due to 
the depreciation in value of the underlying 
loan security.

■■ Leverage finance underwriting. Barclays 
Group takes on sub-investment grade 
underwriting exposure, including single 
name risk, particularly in the US and 
Europe Barclays Group is exposed to credit 
events and market volatility during the 
underwriting period. Any adverse events 
during this period may potentially result 
in loss for Barclays Group, or an increased 
capital requirement should there be a need 
to hold the exposure for an extended period.

■■ Italian portfolio. Barclays Group is exposed 
to a decline in the Italian economic 
environment through a mortgage portfolio 
in run-off and positions to wholesale 
customers. The Italian economy tipped into 
an official recession at the end of 2018 and 
should the economy deteriorate further, 
there could be a material adverse effect on 
Barclays Group's results including, but not 
limited to, increased credit losses and higher 
impairment charges.

Barclays Group also has large individual 
exposures to single name counterparties, 
both in its lending activities and in its financial 
services and trading activities, including 
transactions in derivatives and transactions 
with brokers, central clearing houses, dealers, 
other banks, mutual and hedge funds and 
other institutional clients. The default of 
such counterparties could have a significant 
impact on the carrying value of these assets. 
In addition, where such counterparty risk has 
been mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk 
may remain high if the collateral held cannot 
be realised, or has to be liquidated at prices 
which are insufficient to recover the full 
amount of the loan or derivative exposure. 
Any such defaults could have a material 
adverse effect on Barclays Group's results 
due to, for example, increased credit losses 
and higher impairment charges.

<Page End><Page Start>
134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

c) Environmental risk
Barclays Group is exposed to credit risks 
arising from energy and climate change. 
Indirect risks may be incurred as a result of 
environmental issues impacting the credit 
worthiness of the borrower resulting in higher 
impairment. For further details on Barclays 
Group's approach to energy and climate 
change, refer to page 26 of the TCFD section 
of the Strategic Report and page 151 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report (unaudited).

ii) Market risk
Market volatility
An uncertain outlook for the direction of 
monetary policy, the US-China trade conflict, 
slowing global growth and political concerns 
in the US and Europe (including Brexit) are 
some of the factors that could heighten 
market risks for Barclays Group's portfolios.

In addition, Barclays Group's trading business 
is generally exposed to a prolonged period 
of elevated asset price volatility, particularly if 
it negatively affects the depth of marketplace 
liquidity. Such a scenario could impact 
Barclays Group's ability to execute client 
trades and may also result in lower client 
flow-driven income and/or market-based 
losses on its existing portfolio of market risks. 
These can include having to absorb higher 
hedging costs from rebalancing risks that 
need to be managed dynamically as market 
levels and their associated volatilities change.

iii) Treasury and capital risk
Barclays Group may not be able to achieve its 
business plans due to: a) inability to maintain 
appropriate capital ratios; b) inability to meet 
its obligations as they fall due; c) rating 
agency downgrades; d) adverse changes 
in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios; 
e) adverse movements in the pension fund; 
and f) non-traded market risk/interest rate 
risk in the banking book.

a) Inability to maintain prudential ratios 
and other regulatory requirements
This could lead to Barclays Group's inability 
to support business activity; a failure to meet 
regulatory capital requirements including any 
additional capital add-ons or the requirements 
set for regulatory stress tests; increased cost 
of funding due to deterioration in investor 
appetite or credit ratings; restrictions on 
distributions including the ability to meet 
dividend targets; and/or the need to take 
additional measures to strengthen Barclays 
Group's capital or leverage position.

b) Inability to manage liquidity and funding 
risk effectively
This may result in Barclays Group either not 
having sufficient financial resources to meet 
its payment obligations as they fall due or, 
although solvent, only being able to meet 
these obligations at excessive cost. This could 
cause Barclays Group to fail to meet regulatory 
liquidity standards or be unable to support 
day-to-day banking activities. 

The stability of Barclays Group's current 
funding profile, in particular that part which 
is based on accounts and deposits payable on 
demand or at short notice, could be affected 

by Barclays Group failing to preserve the 
current level of customer and investor 
confidence. Barclays Group also regularly 
accesses the capital markets to provide 
short-term and long-term funding to support 
its operations. Several factors, including 
adverse macroeconomic conditions, adverse 
outcomes in legal, regulatory or conduct 
matters and loss of confidence by investors, 
counterparties and/or customers in Barclays 
Group, can affect the ability of Barclays Group 
to access the capital markets and/or the cost 
and other terms upon which Barclays Group 
is able to obtain market funding. 

c) Credit rating changes and the impact 
on funding costs
Any potential or actual credit rating agency 
downgrades could significantly increase 
Barclays Group's borrowing costs, credit 
spreads and materially adversely affect 
Barclays Group's interest margins and liquidity 
position. Consequently, this may result in 
reduced profitability for Barclays Group.

d) Adverse changes in FX rates impacting 
capital ratios
Barclays Group has capital resources, risk 
weighted assets and leverage exposures 
denominated in foreign currencies. Changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates may 
adversely impact the Sterling equivalent value 
of these items. As a result, Barclays Group's 
regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign 
currency movements. Failure to appropriately 
manage Barclays Group's balance sheet to 
take account of foreign currency movements 
could result in an adverse impact on 
regulatory capital and leverage ratios.

e) Adverse movements in the pension fund
Adverse movements in pension assets 
and liabilities for defined benefit pension 
schemes could result in deficits on a funding 
and/or accounting basis. This could lead to 
Barclays Group making substantial additional 
contributions to its pension plans and/or a 
deterioration in its capital position. Under 
IAS 19 the liabilities discount rate is derived 
from the yields of high quality corporate bonds.

Therefore, the valuation of Barclays Group's 
defined benefits schemes would be adversely 
affected by a prolonged fall in the discount 
rate due to a persistent low rate and/or 
credit spread environment. Inflation is another 
significant risk driver to the pension fund as 
the liabilities are adversely impacted by an 
increase in long-term inflation expectations.

f) Non-traded market risk/interest rate risk 
in the banking book
A shortfall in the liquidity pool investment 
return could increase Barclays Group's cost 
of funds and impact the capital ratios. 
Barclays Group's structural hedge programmes 
for interest rate risk in the banking book rely 
on behavioural assumptions, as a result, 
the success of the hedging strategy is not 
guaranteed. A potential mismatch in the 
balance or duration of the hedge assumptions 
could lead to earnings deterioration.

iv) Operational risk
a) Cyber threat
The frequency of cyberattacks continues to 
grow and is a global threat which is inherent 
across all industries, including the financial 
sector and is a key area of focus for Barclays 
Group. The financial sector remains a primary 
target for cyber criminals. There is an 
increasing level of sophistication in both 
criminal and nation state hacking for the 
purpose of stealing money, stealing, 
destroying or manipulating data, including 
customer data, and/or disrupting operations, 
with threats arising from malicious emails, 
distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, 
payment system compromises, supply chain 
and vulnerability exploitation. Other events 
have a compounding impact on services 
and customers, e.g. data breaches in social 
networking sites, retail companies and 
payments networks.

Failure to adequately manage this threat could 
result in increased fraud losses, inability to 
perform critical economic functions, customer 
detriment, potential regulatory censure 
or penalties, legal liability, reduction in 
shareholder value and reputational damage.

b) Fraud
The level and nature of fraud threats 
continues to evolve, particularly with the 
increasing use of digital products and the 
greater functionality available online. 
Criminals continue to adapt their techniques 
and are increasingly focused on targeting 
customers and clients through ever more 
sophisticated methods of social engineering. 
External data breaches also provide criminals 
with the opportunity to exploit the growing 
levels of compromised data. These threats 
could lead to customer detriment, loss of 
business, regulatory censure, missed business 
opportunity and reputational damage. 

Recent changes in the regulatory landscape 
will see increased levels of liability being taken 
by Barclays Group as part of a voluntary code 
in the UK to provide additional protection 
to customers and clients who are victims 
of Authorised Push Payment scams.

c) Operational resilience
The loss of or disruption to Barclays Group's 
business processing is a material inherent 
risk theme within Barclays Group and across 
the financial services industry, whether arising 
through impacts on technology systems, 
real estate services, personnel availability 
or the support of major suppliers.

Failure to build resilience into business 
processes or into the services of technology, 
real estate or suppliers on which Barclays 
Group's business processes depend, may 
result in significant customer detriment, 
costs to reimburse losses incurred by our 
customers, potential regulatory censure 
or penalties, and reputational damage.

d) Supplier exposure
Barclays Group depends on suppliers, 
including Barclays Services Limited, for the 
provision of many of its services and the 
development of technology. Even though 

Material existing and emerging risks

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 135

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Barclays Group depends on suppliers, 
it continues to be accountable for risk 
arising from the actions of such suppliers.

Failure to monitor and control Barclays 
Group's suppliers could potentially lead to 
client information, or critical infrastructures 
and services, not being adequately protected 
or available when required. The dependency 
on suppliers and sub-contracting of 
outsourced services introduces concentration 
risk where the failure of specific suppliers 
could have an impact on our ability to 
continue to provide services that are material 
to Barclays Group.

Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk 
could result in increased losses, inability to 
perform critical economic functions, customer 
detriment, potential regulatory censure, legal 
liability and reputational damage.

e) Processing error
As a large, complex bank, Barclays Group 
faces the risk of material errors in operational 
processes, including payments and client 
transactions.

Material operational or payment errors could 
disadvantage Barclays Group's customers, 
clients or counterparties and could result in 
regulatory censure, legal liability, reputational 
damage and financial loss for Barclays Group.

f) New and emergent technology
Technological advancements present 
opportunities to develop new and innovative 
ways of doing business across Barclays Group, 
with new solutions being developed both 
in-house and in association with third-party 
companies. Introducing new forms of 
technology, however, also has the potential 
to increase inherent risk.

Failure to evaluate, actively manage and 
closely monitor risk exposure during all 
phases of business development could lead 
to customer detriment, loss of business, 
regulatory censure, missed business 
opportunity and reputational damage.

g) Ability to hire and retain appropriately 
qualified employees
As a regulated financial institution, Barclays 
Group requires diversified and specialist skilled 
colleagues. Barclays Group's ability to attract, 
develop and retain a diverse mix of talent is 
key to the delivery of its core business activity 
and strategy. This is impacted by a range of 
external and internal factors, such as the UK's 
decision to leave the EU and the enhanced 
individual accountability applicable to the 
banking industry.

Failure to attract or prevent the departure 
of appropriately qualified and skilled 
employees could negatively impact our 
financial performance, control environment 
and level of employee engagement. 
Additionally, this may result in disruption 
to service which could in turn lead to 
disenfranchising certain customer groups, 
customer detriment and reputational damage.

h) Tax risk
Barclays Group is required to comply with 
the domestic and international tax laws 
and practice of all countries in which it has 
business operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act has introduced substantial changes to 
the US tax system, including the introduction 
of a new tax, the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax. 
These changes have increased Barclays 
Group's tax compliance obligations and require 
a number of system and process changes 
which introduce additional operational risk. 
In addition, increasing customer tax reporting 
requirements around the world and the 
digitisation of the administration of tax has 
potential to increase Barclays Group's tax 
compliance obligations further. In light of the 
above, there is a risk that Barclays Group could 
suffer losses due to additional tax charges, 
other financial costs or reputational damage 
as a result of failing to comply with such laws 
and practice, or by failing to manage its tax 
affairs in an appropriate manner, with much 
of this risk attributable to the international 
structure of Barclays Group.

i) Critical accounting estimates 
and judgements
The preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS requires the use 
of estimates. It also requires management 
to exercise judgement in applying relevant 
accounting policies. The key areas involving 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions are significant 
to the consolidated and individual financial 
statements include credit impairment charges 
for amortised cost assets, taxes, fair value 
of financial instruments, pensions and 
post-retirement benefits, and provisions 
including conduct and legal, competition 
and regulatory matters. There is a risk that 
if the judgement exercised, or the estimates 
or assumptions used, subsequently turn out 
to be incorrect, this could result in significant 
loss to Barclays Group, beyond what was 
anticipated or provided for.

The further development of standards 
and interpretations under IFRS could also 
significantly impact the financial results, 
condition and prospects of Barclays Group.

j) Data management and information 
protection 
Barclays Group holds and processes large 
volumes of data, including personally 
identifiable information, intellectual property, 
and financial data. Failure to accurately 
collect and maintain this data, protect it from 
breaches of confidentiality and interference 
with its availability exposes Barclays Group 
to the risk of loss or unavailability of data 
(including customer data covered under vi), 
c) Data protection and privacy, below) or data 
integrity issues. This could result in regulatory 
censure, legal liability and reputational 
damage, including the risk of substantial fines 
under the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR), which strengthens the data 
protection rights for customers and increases 
the accountability of Barclays Group in its 
management of that data.

k) Unauthorised or rogue trading 
Unauthorised trading, such as a large 
unhedged position, which arises through a 
failure of preventative controls or deliberate 
actions of the trader, may result in large 
financial losses for Barclays Group, loss of 
business, damage to investor confidence 
and reputational damage.

l) Algorithmic trading
In some areas of the investment banking 
business, trading algorithms are used to 
price and risk manage client and principal 
transactions. An algorithmic error could result 
in increased market exposure and subsequent 
financial losses for Barclays Group and 
potential loss of business, damage to investor 
confidence and reputational damage. 

v) Model risk
Enhanced model risk management 
requirements
Barclays Group relies on models to support 
a broad range of business and risk 
management activities, including informing 
business decisions and strategies, measuring 
and limiting risk, valuing exposures (including 
the calculation of impairment), conducting 
stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, 
supporting new business acceptance and 
risk and reward evaluation, managing client 
assets, and meeting reporting requirements.

Models are, by their nature, imperfect and 
incomplete representations of reality because 
they rely on assumptions and inputs, and so 
they may be subject to errors affecting the 
accuracy of their outputs. For instance, the 
quality of the data used in models across 
Barclays Group has a material impact on the 
accuracy and completeness of our risk and 
financial metrics.

Models may also be misused. Model errors 
or misuse may result in Barclays Group 
making inappropriate business decisions 
and being subject to financial loss, regulatory 
risk, reputational risk and/or inadequate 
capital reporting.

vi) Conduct risk
There is the risk of detriment to customers, 
clients, market integrity, effective competition 
or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of 
financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct. This risk could 
manifest itself in a variety of ways:

a) Product governance and life cycle
Ineffective product governance, including 
design, approval and review of products, 
inappropriate controls over internal and 
third-party sales channels and post-sales 
services, such as complaints handling, 
collections and recoveries, could lead to 
poor customer outcomes, as well as 
regulatory sanctions, financial loss and 
reputational damage.

b) Financial crime
Barclays Group may be adversely affected if 
it fails to effectively mitigate the risk that third 
parties or its employees facilitate, or that its 
products and services are used to facilitate 
financial crime (money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing, breaches 

<Page End><Page Start>
136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

of economic and financial sanctions, bribery 
and corruption, and the facilitation of tax 
evasion). UK and US regulations concerning 
financial institutions continue to focus on 
combating financial crime. Failure to comply 
may lead to enforcement action by Barclays 
Group's regulators together with severe 
penalties, affecting Barclays Group's 
reputation and financial results.

c) Data protection and privacy
Proper handling of personal data is critical 
to sustaining long-term relationships with 
our customers and clients and to meeting 
privacy laws and obligations. Failure to protect 
personal data can lead to potential detriment 
to our customers and clients, reputational 
damage, regulatory sanctions and financial 
loss, which under the GDPR may be 
substantial (see iv (j) Data management 
and information protection, above).

d) Regulatory focus on culture 
and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to 
emphasise the importance of culture and 
personal accountability and the adoption and 
enforcement of adequate internal reporting 
and whistle-blowing procedures in helping 
to promote appropriate conduct and drive 
positive outcomes for customers, colleagues, 
clients and markets. Failure to meet the 
requirements and expectations of the UK 
Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime 
and Conduct Rules may lead to regulatory 
sanctions, both for the individuals and 
Barclays Group.

vii) Reputation risk
Barclays Group's association with sensitive 
sectors and its impact on reputation
A risk arising in one business area can have 
an adverse effect upon Barclays Group's 
overall reputation; any one transaction, 
investment or event that, in the perception 
of key stakeholders reduces their trust in 
Barclays Group's integrity and competence.

Barclays Group's association with sensitive 
topics and sectors is an area of concern 
for stakeholders, including:
■■ disclosure of climate risks and 

opportunities, including the activities 
of certain sections of the client base, 
which has become the subject of 
increased scrutiny from regulators, 
NGOs and other stakeholders

■■ the risks of association with human rights 
violations through the perceived indirect 
involvement in human rights abuses 
committed by clients and customers

■■ the manufacture and export of military 
and riot control goods and services by 
clients and customers.

These associations have the potential to give 
rise to reputation risk for Barclays Group 
and may result in loss of business, regulatory 
censure and missed business opportunity.

In addition to the above, Reputation risk has 
the potential to arise from operational issues 
or conduct matters which cause detriment to 
customers, clients, market integrity, effective 

competition or Barclays Group (see iv a) 
Cyber threat, iv j) Data management and 
information protection, and vi) Conduct 
risk, above).

viii) Legal risk and legal, competition 
and regulatory matters
Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, 
fines and other sanctions relating to conduct 
of business and breaches of legislation  
and/or regulations may negatively affect 
Barclays Group's results, reputation and ability 
to conduct its business.

Barclays Group conducts diverse activities 
in a highly regulated global market and 
therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and 
other sanctions. Authorities have continued 
to investigate past practices, pursued alleged 
breaches and imposed heavy penalties on 
financial services firms. A breach of applicable 
legislation and/or regulations could result 
in Barclays Group or its staff being subject 
to criminal prosecution, regulatory censure, 
fines and other sanctions in the jurisdictions 
in which it operates. Where clients, customers 
or other third parties are harmed by Barclays 
Group's conduct, this may also give rise to 
legal proceedings, including class actions. 
Other legal disputes may also arise between 
Barclays Group and third parties relating 
to matters such as breaches, enforcement 
of legal rights or obligations arising under 
contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse 
findings in any such matters may result in 
Barclays Group being liable to third parties, 
or may result in Barclays Group's rights not 
being enforced as intended.

Details of legal, competition and regulatory 
matters to which Barclays Group is currently 
exposed are set out in Note 27. In addition 
to matters specifically described in Note 27, 
Barclays Group is engaged in various other 
legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary 
course of business. Barclays Group is also 
subject to requests for information, 
investigations and other reviews by regulators, 
governmental and other public bodies in 
connection with business activities in which 
Barclays Group is, or has been, engaged.

The outcome of legal, competition and 
regulatory matters, both those to which 
Barclays Group is currently exposed and 
any others which may arise in the future, 
is difficult to predict. In connection with 
such matters Barclays Group may incur 
significant expense, regardless of the ultimate 
outcome, and any such matters could expose 
Barclays Group to any of the following 
outcomes: substantial monetary damages, 
settlements and/or fines; remediation of 
affected customers and clients; other penalties 
and injunctive relief; additional litigation; 
criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing 
agreed protection from prosecution; 
regulatory restrictions on Barclays Group's 
business operations including the withdrawal 
of authorisations; increased regulatory 
compliance requirements; suspension 
of operations; public reprimands; loss of 
significant assets or business; a negative 
effect on Barclays Group's reputation; loss 

of confidence by investors, counterparties, 
clients and/or customers; risk of credit rating 
agency downgrades; potential negative 
impact on the availability and/or cost of 
funding and liquidity; and/or dismissal or 
resignation of key individuals. In light of the 
uncertainties involved in legal, competition 
and regulatory matters, there can be no 
assurance that the outcome of a particular 
matter or matters will not be material to 
Barclays Group's results of operations or cash 
flow for a particular period.

In January 2017, Barclays was sentenced to 
serve three years of probation from the date 
of the sentencing order in accordance with the 
terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the 
Department of Justice (DOJ). During the term 
of probation, Barclays Group must, among 
other things, (i) commit no crime whatsoever 
in violation of the federal laws of the US, 
(ii) implement and continue to implement 
a compliance programme designed to prevent 
and detect the conduct that gave rise to 
the plea agreement, and (iii) strengthen its 
compliance and internal controls as required 
by relevant regulatory or enforcement 
agencies. Potential consequences of 
breaching the plea agreement include the 
imposition of additional terms and conditions 
on Barclays Group, an extension of the 
agreement, or the criminal prosecution of 
Barclays Group, which could, in turn, entail 
further financial penalties and collateral 
consequences and have a material adverse 
effect on Barclays Group's business, operating 
results or financial position.

There is also a risk that the outcome of any 
legal, competition or regulatory matters in 
which Barclays Group is involved may give 
rise to changes in law or regulation as part of 
a wider response by relevant law makers and 
regulators. A decision in any matter, either 
against Barclays Group or another financial 
institution facing similar claims, could lead 
to further claims against Barclays Group. 

Material existing and emerging risks

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 137

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview
The credit risk that Barclays Group faces arises 
from wholesale and retail loans and advances 
together with the counterparty credit risk 
arising from derivative contracts with clients; 
trading activities, including: debt securities, 
settlement balances with market 
counterparties, FVOCI assets and reverse 
repurchase loans.

Credit risk management objectives are to:
■■ maintain a framework of controls to oversee 

credit risk
■■ identify, assess and measure credit risk 

clearly and accurately across Barclays Group 
and within each separate business, from 
the level of individual facilities up to the 
total portfolio

■■ control and plan credit risk taking in line 
with external stakeholder expectations 
and avoiding undesirable concentrations

■■ monitor credit risk and adherence to 
agreed controls.

Organisation and structure
Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed 
separately to reflect the differing nature of 
the assets; wholesale balances tend to be 
larger and are managed on an individual basis, 
while retail balances are greater in number 
but lesser in value and are, therefore, 
managed in aggregated segments.

The credit risk management teams in each 
legal entity are accountable to the relevant 
Legal Entity CRO, who reports to the Barclays 
Group CRO.

Roles and responsibilities
The responsibilities of the credit risk 
management teams in the businesses, the 
sanctioning team and other shared services 
include: sanctioning new credit agreements 
(principally wholesale); setting strategies for 
approval of transactions (principally retail); 
setting risk appetite; monitoring risk against 
limits and other parameters; maintaining 
robust processes, data gathering, quality, 
storage and reporting methods for effective 
credit risk management; performing effective 
turnaround and workout scenarios for 
wholesale portfolios via dedicated restructuring 
and recoveries teams; maintaining robust 
collections and recovery processes/units for 
retail portfolios; and development of credit 
risk measurement models.

For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval 
is undertaken by experienced credit risk 
professionals operating within a clearly 
defined delegated authority framework, with 
only the most senior credit officers assigned 
the higher levels of delegated authority. 
The largest credit exposures, which are 
outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk 
Distribution Committee authority, require the 
support of a legal entity Senior Credit Officer. 
For exposures in excess of the legal entity 
Senior Credit Officer's authority, approval 
by Group Senior Credit Officer/Board Risk 
Committee is also required. The Barclays 
Group Credit Risk Committee, attended by 
legal entity Senior Credit Officers, provides 
a formal mechanism for the Barclays Group 
Senior Credit Officer to exercise the highest 
level of credit authority over the most material 
Barclays Group single name exposures. 

In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk 
managers are organised in sanctioning teams 
by geography, industry and/or product.

The role of the Central Risk function is 
to provide Barclays Group-wide direction, 
oversight and challenge of credit risk taking. 
Central Risk sets the Credit Risk Control 
Framework, which provides the structure 
within which credit risk is managed, 
together with supporting credit risk 
policies and standards.

Governance and oversight 
of expected credit losses
Barclays Group's organisational structure 
and internal governance processes oversee 
the estimation of ECL across several areas, 
including: i) setting requirements in policy, 
including key assumptions and the 
application of key judgements; ii) the design 
and execution of models; and iii) review 
of ECL results. 

Principal Risk management
Credit risk management

Risk review

Credit risk (audited)
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including 
sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely 
payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends Barclays Group's risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk to Barclays PLC Board
■■ Reviews Barclays Group's risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk on behalf of the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Commissions, receives and considers reports on wholesale and retail credit risk issues

Business Risk Committees
■■ Oversee activities and manage information relating to business portfolios, 

and identify actions needed to mitigate current and arising credit risks
■■ Review and approve business mandate and scale limits and, where 

relevant, provide recommendations for limits managed by wholesale and 
retail risk committees

■■ Review relevant decisions made by, and material issues and topics raised 
by, other forums and committees

Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees
■■ Monitor the wholesale and retail credit risk profile against plan and agree 

required actions
■■ Review key wholesale and retail credit risk issues
■■ Review credit risk policies and framework
■■ Monitor risk appetite consumption – key credit portfolio (mandate and 

scale) limits

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk and makes recommendations on the setting of limits to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Monitors the risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk
■■ Reviews and monitors the control environment for wholesale and retail credit risk

Organisation and structure

<Page End><Page Start>
138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

i)  Impairment policy requirements are set 
and reviewed regularly, at a minimum 
annually, to maintain adherence to 
accounting standards. Key judgements 
inherent in policy, including the estimated 
life of revolving credit facilities and the 
quantitative criteria for assessing the 
significant increase in credit risk (SICR), 
are separately supported by analytical 
study. In particular, the quantitative 
thresholds used for assessing SICR are 
subject to a number of internal validation 
criteria, particularly in retail portfolios 
where thresholds decrease as the 
origination PD of each facility increases. 
Key policy requirements are also typically 
aligned to Barclays Group's credit risk 
management strategy and practices, 
for example, wholesale customers that 
are risk managed on an individual basis 
are assessed for ECL on an individual 
basis upon entering Stage 3; furthermore, 
key internal risk management indicators 
of high risk are used to set SICR policy, 
for example, retail customers identified 
as High Risk Management Accounts are 
automatically deemed to have met the 
SICR criteria.

ii)  ECL is estimated in line with internal 
policy requirements using models which 
are validated by a qualified independent 
party to the model development area, 
the Independent Validation Unit (IVU), 
before first use and at a minimum annually 
thereafter. Each model is designated 
an owner who is responsible for:
■■ Monitoring the performance of the 

model, which includes comparing 
predicted ECL versus flow into Stage 3 
and coverage ratios; and 

■■ Proposing post-model adjustments 
(PMA) to address model weaknesses 
or to account for situations where 
known or expected risk factors and 
information have not been considered 
in the modelling process. Each PMA 
above an absolute and relative threshold 
is approved by the IVU for a set time 
period (usually a maximum of six 
months) together with a plan for 
remediation. The most material PMAs 
are also approved by the Barclays 
Group's Chief Risk Officer.

Models must also assess ECL across 
a range of future economic conditions. 
These economic scenarios are generated 
via an independent model and ultimately 
set by the Senior Scenario Review 
Committee. Economic scenarios are 
regenerated at a minimum annually, to 
align with Barclays Group's medium-term 
planning exercise, but also if the external 
consensus of the UK or US economy 
materially worsen. The scenario probability 
weights are also updated when scenarios 
are regenerated and reviewed by the Senior 
Scenario Committee. Each model used in 
the estimation of ECL, including key inputs, 
are governed by a series of internal 
controls, which include the validation 
of completeness and accuracy of data 

in golden source systems, documented 
data transformations and documented 
lineage of data transfers between systems.

iii)  The Barclays Group Impairment 
Committee, formed of members from 
both Finance and Risk, is responsible for 
overseeing impairment policy and practice 
across Barclays Group and will approve 
impairment results. Reported results and 
key messages are communicated to the 
Barclays PLC Board Audit Committee, 
which has an oversight role and provides 
challenge of key assumptions, including 
the basis of the scenarios adopted.

Credit risk mitigation
Barclays Group employs a range of techniques 
and strategies to actively mitigate credit risks. 
These can broadly be divided into three types:
■■ netting and set-off
■■ collateral
■■ risk transfer.

Netting and set-off
In most jurisdictions and within legal entities 
in which Barclays Group operates, credit risk 
exposures can be reduced by applying netting 
and set-off. In exposure terms, this credit 
risk mitigation technique has the largest 
overall impact on net exposure to derivative 
transactions, compared with other risk 
mitigation techniques.

For derivative transactions, Barclays Group's 
normal practice is, on a legal entity basis, 
to enter into standard master agreements 
with counterparties (e.g. ISDAs). These master 
agreements typically allow for netting of credit 
risk exposure to a counterparty resulting from 
derivative transactions against the obligations 
to the counterparty in the event of default, 
and so produce a lower net credit exposure. 
These agreements may also reduce settlement 
exposure (e.g. for foreign exchange 
transactions) by allowing payments on the 
same day in the same currency to be set-off 
against one another.

Collateral
Barclays Group has the ability to call on 
collateral in the event of default of the 
counterparty, comprising:
■■ home loans: a fixed charge over residential 

property in the form of houses, flats and 
other dwellings. The value of collateral is 
impacted by property market conditions 
which drive demand and therefore value of 
the property. Other regulatory interventions 
on ability to repossess, longer period to 
repossession and granting of forbearance 
may also affect the collateral value

■■ wholesale lending: a fixed charge over 
commercial property and other physical 
assets, in various forms

■■ other retail lending: includes charges over 
motor vehicle and other physical assets; 
second lien charges over residential 
property, which are subordinate to first 
charges held either by Barclays Group or 
another party; and finance lease receivables, 
for which typically Barclays Group retains 

legal title to the leased asset and has the 
right to repossess the asset on the default 
of the borrower

■■ derivatives: Barclays Group also often 
seeks to enter into a margin agreement  
(e.g. Credit Support Annex) with 
counterparties with which Barclays Group 
has master netting agreements in place. 
These annexes to master agreements 
provide a mechanism for further reducing 
credit risk, whereby collateral (margin) 
is posted on a regular basis (typically daily) 
to collateralise the mark to market exposure 
of a derivative portfolio measured on a 
net basis. Barclays Group may additionally 
negotiate the receipt of an independent 
amount further mitigating risk by 
collateralising potential mark to market 
exposure moves

■■ reverse repurchase agreements: collateral 
typically comprises highly liquid securities 
which have been legally transferred to 
Barclays Group subject to an agreement 
to return them for a fixed price

■■ financial guarantees and similar 
off-balance sheet commitments: 
cash collateral may be held against 
these arrangements.

Risk transfer
A range of instruments including guarantees, 
credit insurance, credit derivatives and 
securitisation can be used to transfer credit 
risk from one counterparty to another. 
These mitigate credit risk in two main ways:
■■ if the risk is transferred to a counterparty 

which is more creditworthy than the 
original counterparty, then overall credit 
risk is reduced

■■ where recourse to the first counterparty 
remains, both counterparties must default 
before a loss materialises. This is less likely 
than the default of either counterparty 
individually so credit risk is reduced.

Detailed policies are in place to appropriately 
recognise and record credit risk mitigation. 
For more information, refer to pages 160 
to 162 in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 
2018 (unaudited). 

Principal Risk management
Credit risk management

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 139

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk review

Overview
Market risk arises primarily as a result of client 
facilitation in wholesale markets, involving 
market making activities, risk management 
solutions and execution of syndications. 
Upon execution of a trade with a client, 
Barclays Group will look to hedge against 
the risk of the trade moving in an adverse 
direction. Mismatches between client 
transactions and hedges result in market 
risk due to changes in asset prices, volatility 
or correlations. 

Organisation and structure
Market risk in the businesses resides primarily 
in Barclays International and Barclays Group 
Treasury. These businesses have the mandate 
to assume market risk. Market risk oversight 
and challenge is provided by business 
committees and Barclays Group committees, 
including the Market Risk Committee.

Roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management 
are to: 
■■ identify, understand and control market 

risk by robust measurement, limit setting, 
reporting and oversight

■■ facilitate business growth within 
a controlled and transparent risk 
management framework

■■ control market risk in the businesses 
according to the allocated appetite.

To meet the above objectives, a governance 
structure is in place to manage these risks 
consistent with the ERMF. 

The Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee 
recommends market risk appetite to the 
Barclays PLC Board for their approval. 
The Market Risk Principal Risk Lead (PR Lead) 
is responsible for the Market Risk Control 
Framework and, under delegated authority 
from the Barclays Group CRO, agrees with the 
business CROs a limit framework within the 
context of the approved market risk appetite.

The Market Risk Committee approves and 
makes recommendations concerning the 
Barclays Group-wide market risk profile. 
This includes overseeing the operation of 
the Market Risk Framework and associated 
standards and policies; reviewing market or 
regulatory issues and limits and utilisation. 
The committee is chaired by the PR Lead 
and attendees include the business heads 
of market risk and business aligned market 
risk managers. 

The head of each business is accountable 
for all market risks associated with its 
activities, while the head of the market risk 
team covering each business is responsible 
for implementing the risk control framework 
for market risk.

For more information on market risk 
management, refer to the Barclays PLC  
Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited).

Management value at risk
■■ estimates the potential loss arising 

from unfavourable market movements, 
over one day for a given confidence level

■■ differs from the regulatory VaR used for 
capital purposes in scope, confidence level 
and horizon

■■ back testing is performed to evaluate that 
the model is fit for purpose.

VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising 
from unfavourable market movements if the 
current positions were to be held unchanged 
for one business day. For internal market risk 
management purposes, a historical simulation 
methodology with a two-year equally 
weighted historical period, at the 95% 
confidence level is used for all trading books 
and some banking books. 

The management VaR model in some 
instances may not appropriately measure 
some market risk exposures, especially for 
market moves that are not directly observable 
via prices. Market risk managers are required 
to identify risks which are not adequately 
captured in VaR (‘risks not in VaR' or ‘RNIVs').

When reviewing VaR estimates, the following 
considerations are taken into account:
■■ the historical simulation uses the most 

recent two years of past data to generate 
possible future market moves, but the past 
may not be a good indicator of the future

■■ the one-day time horizon may not fully 
capture the market risk of positions that 
cannot be closed out or hedged within 
one day

■■ VaR is based on positions as at close of 
business and consequently, it is not an 
appropriate measure for intra-day risk 
arising from a position bought and sold 
on the same day

■■ VaR does not indicate the potential loss 
beyond the VaR confidence level.

Limits are applied at the total level as well 
as by risk factor type, which are then 
cascaded down to particular trading desks 
and businesses by the market risk 
management function.

Market risk (audited)
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets and 
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

Principal Risk management
Market risk management

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends Barclays Group's risk appetite for market risk to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Reviews material events impacting market risk

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite
■■ Debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across Barclays Group
■■ Considers issues escalated by risk type heads and business risk directors

Barclays Group Market Risk Committee
■■ Reviews market risk appetite proposals from the business 
■■ Oversees the management of Barclays Group's market risk profile
■■ Reviews arising market or regulatory issues
■■ Reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses

Organisation and structure

<Page End><Page Start>
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Overview
Barclays Group Treasury manages treasury 
and capital risk exposure on a day-to-day 
basis with the Treasury Committee acting as 
the principal management body. To enforce 
effective oversight and segregation of duties 
and in line with the ERMF, the Treasury and 
Capital Risk function is responsible for 
oversight of key capital, liquidity, interest rate 
risk in the banking book (IRRBB) and pension 
risk management activities. The following 
describes the structure and governance 
associated with the risk types within the 
Treasury and Capital Risk function.

Liquidity risk management 
(audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is 
essential to Barclays Group in retaining the 
confidence of the financial markets and 
maintaining the sustainability of the business. 
There is a control framework in place for 
managing liquidity risk and this is designed 
to maintain liquidity resources that are 
sufficient in amount and quality and funding 
tenor profile that is adequate to meet the 
liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the 
Barclays PLC Board based on internal and 
regulatory liquidity metrics.

This is achieved via a combination of policy 
formation, review and governance, analysis, 
stress testing, limit setting and monitoring. 
Together, these meet internal and 
regulatory requirements.

Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury and Capital Risk function 
is responsible for the management and 
governance of the liquidity risk mandate 
defined by the Board and the production 
of ILAAPs. Treasury has the primary 
responsibility for managing liquidity risk 
within the set risk appetite.

Barclays Group's comprehensive control 
framework for managing Barclays Group's 
liquidity risk is designed to deliver the 
appropriate term and structure of funding, 
consistent with the liquidity risk appetite 
set by the Board.

The control framework incorporates a range 
of ongoing business management tools to 
monitor, limit and stress test Barclays Group's 
balance sheet and contingent liabilities and 
the Recovery Plan. Limit setting and transfer 
pricing are tools that are designed to control 
the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the 
appropriate mix of funds. Together, these 
tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity 
stress event could lead to an inability to meet 
Barclays Group's obligations as they fall due. 
The control framework is subject to internal 
conformance testing and internal audit review.

The Board approves the Barclays Group 
funding plan, internal stress tests and results 
of regulatory stress tests, and the Barclays 
Group recovery plan. The Treasury Committee 
is responsible for monitoring and managing 
liquidity risk in line with Barclays Group's 
funding management objectives, funding plan 
and risk frameworks. The Treasury and Capital 
Risk Committee monitors and reviews the 
liquidity risk profile and control environment, 
providing Second Line oversight of the 
management of liquidity risk. The BRC reviews 
the risk profile, and annually reviews risk 
appetite and the impact of stress scenarios 
on the Barclays Group funding plan/forecast 
in order to agree Barclays Group's projected 
funding abilities.

Treasury and capital risk
Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations 
or that it does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and 
liquidity to support its assets.

Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to 
support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under 
normal operating environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for 
internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This includes the risk from the firm's 
pension plans.

Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income 
volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) 
assets and liabilities.

Principal Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

Organisation and structure

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends Barclays Group's risk appetite for treasury and capital risk to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Reviews material issues impacting treasury and capital risk
■■ Recommends the approval of ICAAP and ILAAP to the Barclays PLC Board

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends risk appetite to the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends the ICAAP and ILAAP to the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee for approval

Barclays Group Treasury and Capital Risk Committee
■■ Manages treasury and capital risk appetite
■■ Monitors the treasury and capital risk profile
■■ Monitors the treasury and capital risk control environment
■■ Recommends risk appetite to the Barclays Group Risk Committee and Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the Barclays Group Risk Committee and Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 141

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Barclays Group maintains a range of 
management actions for use in a liquidity 
stress, these are documented in the Barclays 
Group Recovery Plan. Since the precise nature 
of any stress event cannot be known in 
advance, the actions are designed to be 
flexible to the nature and severity of the stress 
event and provide a menu of options that 
can be drawn upon as required. The Barclays 
Group Recovery Plan also contains more 
severe recovery options to generate additional 
liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a 
severe stress. Any stress event would be 
regularly monitored and reviewed using key 
management information by Treasury, Risk 
and business representatives.

Capital risk management 
(audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing 
monitoring and management of the capital 
position, regular stress testing and a robust 
capital governance framework. 

Roles and responsibilities
The management of capital risk is integral to 
Barclays Group's approach to financial stability 
and sustainability management, and is 
embedded in the way businesses and legal 
entities operate.

Capital risk management is underpinned by 
a control framework and policy. The capital 
management strategy, outlined in Barclays 
Group and legal entity capital plans, is 
developed in alignment with the control 
framework and policy for capital risk, and is 
implemented consistently in order to deliver 
on Barclays Group's objectives.

The Board approves the Barclays Group capital 
plan, internal stress tests and results of 
regulatory stress tests, and the Barclays Group 
recovery plan. The Barclays Group Treasury 
Committee is responsible for monitoring and 
managing capital risk in line with Barclays 
Group's capital management objectives, 

capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays 
Group Treasury and Capital Risk Committee 
monitors and reviews the capital risk profile 
and control environment, providing Second 
Line oversight of the management of capital 
risk. The Barclays PLC BRC reviews the risk 
profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and 
the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays 
Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree 
Barclays Group's projected capital adequacy. 

Local management assures compliance 
with an entity's minimum regulatory capital 
requirements by reporting to local Asset and 
Liability Committees with oversight by Barclays 
Group Treasury Committee, as required.

Treasury has the primary responsibility 
for managing and monitoring capital and 
reports to the Barclays Group Finance Director. 
The Barclays Group Treasury and Capital Risk 
function provides oversight of capital risk and 
is an independent risk function that reports 
to the Barclays Group CRO. Production of the 
Barclays PLC ICAAP is the joint responsibility 
of Barclays Group Risk and Barclays 
Group Finance.

In 2018, Barclays complied with all regulatory 
minimum capital requirements.

Pension risk 
Barclays Group maintains a number of defined 
benefit pension schemes for past and current 
employees. The ability of the pension fund 
to meet pension payments is maintained 
through investments and contributions.

Pension risk arises because the estimated 
market value of the pension fund assets might 
decline; investment returns might reduce; 
or the estimated value of the pension liabilities 
might increase. Barclays Group monitors the 
pension risks arising from its defined benefit 
pension schemes and works with Trustees 
to address shortfalls. In these circumstances 
Barclays Group could be required or might 
choose to make extra contributions to the 
pension fund. Barclays Group's main defined 
benefit scheme was closed to new entrants 
in 2012. 

Organisation and structure

■■ Maintain adequate capital for Barclays Group and its legal entities to 
withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under the normal and 
stressed conditions.

■■ Meet minimum regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions.
■■ Maintain capital buffers over regulatory minimums.
■■ Perform Barclays Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests.
■■ Develop contingency plans for severe and extreme stresses, which include 

stress management actions and recovery actions.

■■ Maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations.

■■ Maintain a capital plan on a short-term and medium-term basis aligned 
with Barclays Group's strategic objectives, balancing capital generation 
of the business with business growth and shareholder distributions.

■■ Maintain adequate capital to cover Barclays Group's current and forecast 
business needs and associated risks in order to provide a viable and 
sustainable business offering.

Primary objectives Core practices

<Page End><Page Start>
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Interest rate risk in the 
banking book management
Overview
Banking book operations generate non-traded 
market risk, primarily through the mismatch 
between the duration of assets and liabilities 
and where interest rates on products reset 
at different dates. As per Barclays Group's 
policy to remain within the defined risk 
appetite, interest rate and FX risks residing 
in the banking books of the businesses 
are transferred to Treasury where they are 
centrally managed. Currently these risks 
are transferred to Treasury via funding 
arrangements and interest rate or FX swaps. 
However, the businesses remain susceptible 
to non-traded market risk from seven 
key sources:
■■ repricing/residual risk: the impact from 

the mismatch between the run-off of 
product balances and the associated 
interest rate hedges or from unhedged 
liquidity buffer investments

■■ structural risk: the change to the net 
interest income on rolling structural hedge 
replenishment due to adverse movements 
in interest rates, assuming that the balance 
sheet remains constant

■■ prepayment risk: the potential loss in value 
if actual prepayment or early withdrawal 
behaviour from customers deviates from 
the expected or contractually agreed 
behaviour, which may result in a hedge or 
funding adjustment at a cost to Barclays 
Group. Exposures are typically considered 
(where appropriate) net of any applicable 
offsetting early repayment charges. This risk 
principally relates to early repayment of 
fixed rate loans or withdrawal from fixed 
rate savings products

■■ recruitment risk: the potential loss in value 
if the actual completion or drawdown 
behaviour from customers deviates from the 
expected behaviour, which may result in a 
hedge or funding adjustment at a cost to 
Barclays Group. This risk principally relates 
to the completion timing around Barclays 
Group's fixed rate mortgage pipeline process

■■ margin compression risk: the effect of 
internal or market forces on the Barclays 
Group's net margin where, for example, 
in a low rate environment a fall in interest 
rates may further decrease interest income 
earned on the assets whereas funding costs 
may not be reduced given the already 
minimum level of interest rates

■■ lag risk: arises from the delay in repricing 
customer rates for certain variable/
managed rate products, following an 
underlying change to market interest rates. 
This is typically driven by either regulatory 
constraints around customer notification 
on pricing changes, processing time for 
Barclays Group's notification systems or 
contractual agreements within a product's 
terms and conditions

■■ asset swap spread risk: the spread between 
LIBORand sovereign bond yields that arises 
from the management of the liquidity buffer 
investments and its associated hedges. 

Furthermore, liquidity pool investments are 
generally subject to fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI) accounting 
rules, whereby changes in the fair value 
of these assets impact capital via other 
comprehensive income (OCI).

Roles and responsibilities
The non-traded market risk team provides 
risk management oversight and monitoring 
of all traded and non-traded market risk in 
Treasury and customer banking books, 
which specifically includes:
■■ interest rate risk assessment in the 

customer banking books
■■ review and challenge the behavioural 

assumptions used in hedging and 
transfer pricing

■■ risk management of the liquidity buffer 
investments and funding activities

■■ oversight of balance sheet hedging
■■ review of residual risk in the hedge 

accounting solution and hedging of 
net investments

■■ proposal and monitoring of risk limits 
to manage traded and non-traded market 
risk within the agreed risk appetite.

The Barclays Group Treasury Committee 
is responsible for monitoring and managing 
IRRBB risk in line with Barclays Group's 
management objectives and risk frameworks. 
The Barclays Group Risk Committee monitors 
and reviews the IRRBB risk profile and control 
environment, providing Second Line oversight 
of the management of IRRBB risk. The 
Barclays Group Board Risk Committee reviews 
the interest rate risk profile, including annual 
review of the risk appetite and the impact of 
stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the 
Barclays Group. 

Principal Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 143

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk review

Principal Risk management
Operational risk management

Overview
The management of operational risk has three 
key objectives:
■■ deliver an operational risk capability owned 

and used by business leaders which is 
pragmatic, relevant, and enables business 
leaders to make sound risk decisions over 
the long term

■■ provide the frameworks and policies to 
enable management to meet their risk 
management responsibilities while the 
second line of defence provides robust, 
independent, and effective oversight 
and challenge

■■ deliver a consistent and aggregated 
measurement of operational risk that 
will provide clear and relevant insights, 
so that the right management actions 
can be taken to keep the operational risk 
profile consistent with Barclays Group's 
strategy, the stated risk tolerance and 
stakeholder needs.

Following submission of an application to 
the PRA relating to Barclays Group Advanced 
Measurement Approach (AMA) permission, 
Barclays Group received the PRA's approval 
to use the Standardised Approach (TSA) 

for operational risk regulatory capital 
purposes with effect from 1 April 2018. 
Barclays Group has conservatively elected 
to retain its previous operational risk RWA 
amount unchanged for 2018. 

Barclays Group operates within a strong system 
of internal controls that enables business to 
be transacted and risk taken without exposing 
Barclays Group to unacceptable potential 
losses or reputational damages. Barclays 
Group has an overarching Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF) that sets 
out the approach to internal governance.

Organisation and structure
Operational risk comprises a number of 
specific risk categories defined as follow: 
■■ data management and information risk: 

the risk that Barclays Group information 
is not captured, retained, used or protected 
in accordance with its value and legal and 
regulatory requirements

■■ financial reporting risk: the risk of a 
material misstatement or omission within 
Barclays Group's external financial reporting, 
regulatory reporting or internal financial 
management reporting

■■ fraud risk: the risk of financial loss when 
an internal or external party acts dishonestly 
with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, 
cause a loss to, or to expose either Barclays 
Group or its customers and clients to a 
risk of loss

■■ payments process risk: the risk of 
payments being processed inaccurately, 
with delays or without appropriate 
authentication and authorisation.  
It includes payments processes from 
initiation through to external settlement, 
including any repairs or amendments

■■ people risk: the set of risks associated 
with employing and managing people, 
including compliance with regulations, 
appropriate resourcing for requirements, 
recruitment and development risks 
(excluding health and safety related risk)

■■ premises risk: the risk of business 
detriment or harm to people due to 
premises and infrastructure issues

■■ physical security risk: the risk of business 
detriment, financial loss or harm to people 
as a result of any physical security incident 
impacting Barclays Group or a Barclays 
Group's employee – relating to harm to 
people, unauthorised access, intentional 
damage to premises or theft or intentional 
damage to moveable assets

■■ supplier risk: the risk that is introduced 
to Barclays Group or a Barclays Group's 
entity as a consequence of obtaining 
services or goods from another legal entity, 
or entities, whether external or internal 
as a result of inadequate selection, 
inadequate management or inadequate 
exit management

Operational risk
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes, systems, human factors 
or due to external events (for example, fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit 
or market risks.

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends risk appetite and risk limit across operational 

risk to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Monitors the Barclays Group risk profile and the utilisation of risk appetite
■■ Reviews appetite, limit usage and risk management within tolerance 

agreed to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Reviews deep dives of specific risks as requested
■■ Reviews the impact of any material acquisitions and disposals on the  

risk profile
■■ Reviews remediation plans and actions taken, and agrees any further 

actions required
■■ Escalates to Barclays PLC Board level

Business Risk Committees
■■ Manage and oversee risk at the business unit/function level
■■ Escalate to Barclays Group level

Barclays Group Controls Committee
■■ Oversees effectiveness of the control environment
■■ Reviews and recommends the control framework
■■ Oversees control remediation activities
■■ Oversees the execution of the Operational Risk Management Framework 

consistently across Barclays Group
■■ Oversees risk and internal control matters including significant issues
■■ Escalates to Barclays PLC Board level

Business Controls Committees
■■ Manage and oversee the control environment at the business/function level
■■ Escalate to Barclays Group level

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Approves operational risk framework
■■ Oversees operational risk capital
■■ Recommends and monitors operational risk appetite and the residual 

risk position, supported by feedback from the Barclays PLC Board Audit 
Committee/Chief Controls Officer

Barclays PLC Board Audit Committee
■■ Oversees the operating effectiveness of the control environment
■■ Oversees remediation of control issues
■■ Gives feedback to the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee where concerns 

exist over the impact on residual risk through either the design  
or operating effectiveness of the control environment

Organisation and structure

<Page End><Page Start>
144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

■■ tax risk: the risk of unexpected tax cost in 
relation to any tax for which Barclays Group 
is liable, or of reputational damage on tax 
matters with key stakeholders such as tax 
authorities, regulators, shareholders or the 
public. Tax cost includes tax, interest or 
penalties levied by a taxing authority

■■ technology risk: the risk of dependency 
on technological solutions and failure to 
develop, deploy and maintain technology 
solutions that are stable, reliable and 
deliver business need

■■ transaction operations risk: the risk of 
customer/client or Barclays Group detriment 
due to unintentional error and/or failure 
in the end-to-end process of initiation, 
processing and fulfilment of an interaction 
between a customer/client and Barclays 
Group with an underlying financial 
instrument (e.g. mortgage, derivative 
product, trade product etc.) in consideration.

In addition to the above, operational risk 
encompasses risks associated with prudential 
regulation. This includes the risk of failing to: 
adhere to prudential regulatory requirements, 
including capital adequacy requirements; 
provide regulatory submissions; or monitor 
and manage adherence to new prudential 
regulatory requirements.

These risks may result in financial and/or 
non-financial impacts including legal/
regulatory breaches or reputational damage.

Barclays Group also recognises that there 
are certain threats/risk drivers that are more 
thematic and have the potential to impact 
Barclays Group's strategic objectives. These 
are Enterprise Risk Themes which require an 
overarching and integrated risk management 
approach. Including:
■■ cyber: the potential loss or detriment 

to Barclays caused by individuals or 
groups (threat actors) with the capabilities 
and intention to cause harm or to profit 
from attacks committed via network 
information systems against us, 
our suppliers, or customers/clients

■■ data: aligned to the data strategy of 
Barclays Group and encompassing data 
risks to Barclays Group from multiple risk 
categories, including data management, 
data architecture, data security & 
protection, data resilience, data retention 
and data privacy

■■ execution: the risk of failing to deliver 
and implement the agreed initiatives, 
priorities and business outcomes required 
to deliver Barclays Group's strategy within 
agreed timelines

■■ resilience: the risk of the organisation's 
ability to survive and prosper in its 
commercial endeavours in the presence 
of adverse events, shocks and chronic 
or incremental changes.

Roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management 
of operational risk and the compliance with 
control requirements rests with the legal 
entities, business and functional units where 
the risk arises. The operational risk profile and 
control environment is reviewed by business 
management through specific meetings which 
cover these items. Legal entities, businesses 
and functions are required to report their 
operational risks on both a regular and an 
event-driven basis. The reports include a 
profile of the material risks that may threaten 
the achievement of their objectives and the 
effectiveness of key controls, operational risk 
events and a review of scenarios. 

The Barclays Group Head of Operational 
Risk is responsible for establishing, owning 
and maintaining an appropriate Barclays 
Group-wide Operational Risk Management 
Framework and for overseeing the portfolio 
of operational risk across Barclays Group.

Operational Risk Management (ORM) acts 
in a Second Line of Defence capacity, and is 
responsible for defining and overseeing the 
implementation of the framework and 
monitoring Barclays Group's operational risk 
profile. ORM alerts management when risk 
levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order 
to drive timely decision making and actions 
by the First Line of Defence. Operational risk 
issues escalated from these meetings are 
considered through the Second Line of 
Defence review meetings. Depending on their 
nature, the outputs of these meetings are 
presented to the operational risk profile Forum, 
the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee or 
the Barclays PLC Board Audit Committee.

Specific reports are prepared by Operational 
Risk on a regular basis for the Barclays Group 
Risk Committee, and the Barclays PLC Board 
Risk Committee.

For further information on Barclays Group's 
Operational Risk Framework, refer to the 
Operational Risk Framework section on pages 
182 to 185 in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 
2018 (unaudited). 

Principal Risk management
Operational risk management

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 145

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview
Barclays Group uses models to support a 
broad range of activities, including informing 
business decisions and strategies, measuring 
and limiting risk, valuing exposures, 
conducting stress testing, assessing capital 
adequacy, managing client assets, and 
meeting reporting requirements. 

Since models are imperfect and incomplete 
representations of reality, they may be subject 
to errors affecting the accuracy of their output. 
Model errors can result in inappropriate 
business decisions being made, financial loss, 
regulatory risk, reputational risk and/or 
inadequate capital reporting. Models may also 
be misused, for instance applied to products 
that they were not intended for, or not 
adjusted, where fundamental changes to their 
environment would justify re-evaluating their 
core assumptions. Errors and misuse are the 
primary sources of model risk.

Robust model risk management is crucial 
to assessing and managing model risk within 
a defined risk appetite. Strong model risk 
culture, appropriate technology environment, 
and adequate focus on understanding 
and resolving model limitations are 
crucial components. 

Organisation and structure
Barclays Group allocates substantial resources 
to identify and record models and their usage, 
document and monitor the performance 
of models, validate models and adequately 
address model limitations. Barclays Group 
manages model risk as an enterprise level 
risk similar to other principal risks.

Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk 
Management (MRM) function that consists 
of two main units: the Independent Validation 
Unit (IVU), responsible for model validation 
and approval, and Model Governance 
and Controls (MGC), covering model risk 
governance, controls and reporting, including 
ownership of model risk policy and the 
model inventory.

The model risk management framework 
consists of the model risk policy and 
standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, 
end-to-end requirements for the identification, 
measurement and management of model risk, 
covering model documentation, development, 
implementation, monitoring, annual review, 
independent validation and approval, change 
and reporting processes. The policy is 
supported by global standards covering 
model inventory, documentation, validation, 
complexity and materiality, testing and 
monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well 
as vendor models and stress testing 
challenger models.

Barclays Group is continuously enhancing 
model risk management. The function reports 
to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a 
global framework. Implementation of best 
practice standards is a central objective of 
Barclays Group. Model risk reporting flows 
to senior management as depicted below.

Roles and responsibilities
The key model risk management 
activities include: 
■■ correctly identifying models across all 

relevant areas of Barclays Group, and 
recording models in the Barclays Group 

Models Database (GMD), the Barclays 
Group-wide model inventory. The heads 
of the relevant model ownership areas 
annually attest to the completeness and 
accuracy of the model inventory. MGC 
undertakes regular conformance reviews 
on the model inventory

■■ enforcing that every model has a model 
owner who is accountable for the model. 
The model owner must sign off models 
prior to submission to IVU for validation. 
The model owner works with the relevant 
technical teams (model developers, 
implementation, monitoring, data services, 
regulatory) to maintain that the model 
presented to IVU is and remains fit 
for purpose

■■ overseeing that every model is subject 
to validation and approval by IVU, prior 
to being implemented and on a continual 
basis. While all models are reviewed and 
re-approved for continued use each year, 
the validation frequency and the level of 
review and challenge applied by IVU is 
tailored to the materiality and complexity 
of each model. Validation includes a review 
of the model assumptions, conceptual 
soundness, data, design, performance 
testing, compliance with external 
requirements if applicable, as well as 
any limitations, proposed remediation 
and overlays with supporting rationale. 
Material model changes are subject to 
prioritised validation and approval

■■ defining model risk appetite in terms of 
risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which 
are used to track and report model risk

■■ maintaining specific standards that cover 
model risk management activities relating 
to stress testing challenger models, model 
overlays, vendor models, and model 
complexity and materiality. 

Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions 
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.

Principal Risk management
Model risk management

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and recommends Barclays Group's risk appetite for model risk to the Barclays PLC Board
■■ Reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays Group identifies and manages model risk
■■ Assesses performance relative to model risk appetite

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews risk appetite across model risk
■■ Monitors the Barclays Group risk profile for model risk, including emerging risks, against expected trends, and the utilisation of risk appetite

Business Risk Committees
■■ Review critical updates on model risk e.g. updates on Barclays Group-wide remediation plans
■■ Review targeted updates on progress towards meeting regulatory deliverables
■■ Review identified policy breaches

Organisation and structure

Risk review

<Page End><Page Start>
146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Principal Risk management
Conduct risk management

Overview
Barclays Group defines, manages and 
mitigates conduct risk with the goal of 
providing positive customer and client 
outcomes, protecting market integrity and 
promoting effective competition. This includes 
taking reasonable steps to assure that 
Barclays Group's culture and strategy are 
appropriately aligned to these goals; its 
products and services are reasonably designed 
and delivered to meet the needs of customers 
and clients; promoting the fair and orderly 
operation of the markets in which Barclays 
Group does business; and that Barclays Group 
does not commit or facilitate money 
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and 
corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.

Product Life cycle, Culture and Strategy and 
Financial Crime are the risk categories within 
the Barclays Group definition of conduct risk. 

Organisation and structure
The governance of conduct risk within 
Barclays Group is fulfilled through 
management committees and forums 
operated by the First and Second Lines of 
Defence with clear escalation and reporting 
lines to the Board.

The Barclays Group Risk Committee is the 
most senior executive body responsible for 
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of Barclays Group's management of 
conduct risk.

Roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework 
(CRMF) outlines how Barclays Group manages 
and measures its conduct risk profile. 

Senior managers have accountability for 
managing conduct risk in their areas of 
responsibility. This is expressed in their 
Statements of Responsibilities. The primary 
responsibility for managing conduct risk 
and compliance with control requirements 
sits with the business where the risk arises. 
The First Line Business Control Committees 
provide oversight of controls relating to 
conduct risk. 

The Barclays Group Chief Compliance Officer 
is responsible for owning and maintaining 
an appropriate Barclays Group-wide CRMF. 
This includes defining and owning the relevant 
conduct risk policies and oversight of the 
implementation of controls to manage and 
escalate the risk.

Businesses are required to report their 
conduct risks on both a quarterly and an 
event-driven basis to their respective trading 
entity risk committees. The quarterly reports 
detail conduct risks inherent within the 
business strategy and include forward looking 
horizon scanning analysis as well as backward 
looking evidence-based indicators from both 
internal and external sources. 

The Barclays Bank Group and the Barclays 
Bank UK Group Trading Entity Risk 
Committees are the primary Second Line 
governance forums for oversight of conduct 
risk profile and implementation of the CRMF. 
The responsibilities of the Business Unit Risk 
Committees include approval of the conduct 
risk tolerance and the business defined key 
indicators. Additional responsibilities include 
the identification and discussion of any 
emerging conduct risks exposures which 
have been identified. 

Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or 
Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

Barclays PLC Board Reputation Committee
■■ Reviews the effectiveness of the processes by which Barclays Group 

identifies and manages conduct risk, including annually reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Barclays Group Conduct Risk Management Framework;

■■ Seeks to ensure fair customer outcomes by carrying out periodic reviews 
of the Barclays Group's implementation of policies on customers, clients 
and counterparties, and by monitoring management reports on issues 
such as compliant levels, customer satisfaction indicators, net promoter 
scores and market share measures; and

■■ Reviews performance against conduct risk metrics.

Barclays Group Controls Committee
■■ Provides oversight and challenge of the 

effectiveness of the Barclays Group control 
environment in relation to conduct risk and 
provides governance, oversight and supervision 
of all elements of the Barclays Group Conduct 
Risk Framework.

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews and monitors the effectiveness 

of conduct risk management.

Barclays International and Barclays UK 
Risk Committees
■■ Review and discuss the conduct risk profile 

of Barclays Bank Group and Barclays Bank 
UK Group, and the effectiveness of their 
risk management, control and escalation.

Organisation and structure

Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays  
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Review the effectiveness of the processes by which the trading entities 

identify and manage conduct risk, including annually reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Barclays Group Conduct Risk Management Framework 
as it applies to the trading entities;

■■ Seek to obtain fair customer outcomes by carrying out periodic reviews  
of the respective trading entities' implementation of policies on customers, 
clients and counterparties, and by monitoring management reports 
on issues such as compliant levels, customer satisfaction indicators, 
net promoter scores and market share measures; and

■■ Review performance against conduct risk metrics.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 147

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk review

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm's 
integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees 
or the public.

Principal Risk management
Reputation risk management

Overview
A reduction of trust in Barclays Group's 
integrity and competence may reduce 
the attractiveness of Barclays Group to 
stakeholders and could lead to negative 
publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or 
legislative action, loss of existing and potential 
client business, reduced workforce morale 
and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately 
it may destroy shareholder value.

Organisation and structure
The Barclays Group Risk Committee is the 
most senior executive body responsible for 
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of Barclays Group's management of 
reputation risk. 

Roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Group Chief Compliance Officer 
is accountable for developing a reputation risk 
framework, policies and standards, including 
limits against which data is monitored, 
reported on and escalated, as required. 

Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and 
can be difficult to quantify, requiring more 
subjective judgement than many other risks. 
The Reputation Risk Framework sets out 
what is required to manage reputation risk 
effectively and consistently across Barclays 
Group. During 2018, the framework was 
updated to include a new reputation risk 
policy and supporting standards.

The primary responsibility for identifying 
and managing reputation risk and adherence 
to the control requirements sits with the 
business and support functions where the 
risk arises.

Barclays Bank Group and Barclays Bank 
UK Group are required to operate within 
established reputation risk appetite and 
their component businesses prepare reports 
for their respective Risk and Board Risk 
Committees highlighting their most significant 
current and potential reputation risks and 
issues and how they are being managed. 
These reports are a key internal source of 
information for the quarterly reputation risk 
reports which are prepared for the Barclays 
Group Risk Committee and Barclays PLC Board 
Reputation Committee. 

Barclays PLC Board Reputation Committee
■■ Reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays Group identifies and manages reputation risk
■■ Considers and evaluates regular reports on Barclays Group's reputation risk issues and exposures
■■ Considers whether significant business decisions will compromise Barclays Group's ethical policies or core business beliefs and values

Barclays Group Risk Committee
■■ Reviews the monitoring processes utilised by Compliance and Corporate Relations to ensure they are proportionate given the level of risk identified in the businesses
■■ Reports reputation issues in accordance with Barclays Group's Reputation Risk Framework for all material issues which may have the potential to incur 

reputation risk for Barclays Group

Business Risk Committees
■■ Review and escalate reputation risks in accordance with Barclays Group's Reputation Risk Framework.

Organisation and structure

<Page End><Page Start>
148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Principal Risk management
Legal risk management

Overview
Overall, Barclays Group has limited tolerance 
for legal risk, however the multitude of laws 
and regulations across the globe are highly 
dynamic and their application to particular 
circumstances is often unclear. This results 
in a degree of legal risk. The Barclays 
Group-wide Legal Risk Management 
Framework (LRMF) comprises a number of 
integrated components that allows Barclays 
Group to identify, manage and measure its 
legal risk profile, supported by legal risk 
policies and associated standards aligned 
to the following legal risks:
■■ contractual arrangements – failure to 

engage Barclays Group's Legal Function 
in relation to contractual arrangements

■■ litigation management – litigation not 
being managed by or with the support 
of Barclays Group's Legal Function

■■ intellectual property (IP) – failure to protect 
Barclays Group's IP assets or infringement 
of third-party IP rights

■■ competition/anti-trust – failure to identify 
and escalate competition/anti-trust issues 
to Barclays Group's Legal Function or 
inappropriate interactions with 
competition/anti-trust authorities 

■■ use of law firms – inappropriate instruction 
of external legal advisers

■■ contact with regulators – inappropriate 
interactions with regulators or inappropriate 
handling of confidential supervisory 
information from regulatory or government 
agencies

■■ legal engagement – failure to appropriately 
engage Barclays Group's Legal Function 
in relation to key business decisions. 

Organisation and structure
The Legal Executive Committee oversees, 
monitors and challenges legal risk across 
Barclays Group. The Barclays Group Risk 
Committee is the most senior executive body 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring 
the effectiveness of risk management across 
Barclays Group. Escalation paths from this 
committee exist to the Barclays PLC Board 
Risk Committee.

Roles and responsibilities
The LRMF requires Barclays Group's 
businesses and functions to integrate the 
management of legal risk within their strategic 
planning and business decision making 
including managing adherence to minimum 
control requirements. Barclays Group's 
businesses and functions are accountable 
and have primary responsibility for identifying 
legal risk in their area as well as responsibility 
for adherence to minimum control 
requirements and compliance with the 
LRMF and legal risk policies.

All employees, regardless of their position, 
business or function or location, must play 
a part in Barclays Group's legal risk 
management. Employees are responsible for 
understanding and taking reasonable steps

to manage and minimise legal risk that may 
arise in the context of their individual roles 
and responsibilities. Employees are required 
to be familiar with the LRMF and legal risk 
policies and to know how to escalate actual 
or potential legal risk issues. 

Legal risk management is everyone's 
responsibility, as part of a risk culture aligned 
to Barclays Group's Values, promoting 
transparency and timely escalation and 
management of risks and issues, supported 
by clearly defined roles and responsibilities 
across the Three Lines of Defence.

The Legal Function does not sit in any of the 
three lines of defence but supports them all. 
The LRMF details the main activities the Legal 
Function undertakes to support Barclays Group 
in managing risk, including the identification 
of issues and risks, coverage with appropriate 
expertise and escalation. The LRMF, legal risk 
policies and activities of the Legal Function 
are designed so that Barclays Group receives 
advice from appropriate legal professionals 
in circumstances that are most likely to give 
rise to legal risk.

The Group General Counsel, supported by 
the Legal Executive Committee and the Global 
Head of Legal Risk, Governance and Control, 
is responsible for maintaining an appropriate 
LRMF, developing non-financial legal risk 
tolerances and for overseeing legal 
risk management.

Legal risk
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm 
to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.

Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee
■■ Approves risk tolerances
■■ Reviews risk profile and material risk issues 
■■ Commissions, receives and considers reports on key risk issues

Barclays Group Risk and Controls Committees
■■ Monitor risk profile with respect to non-financial risk tolerances
■■ Debate and agree actions on the non-financial risk profile and risk strategy across Barclays Group

Legal Executive Committee
■■ Oversees, monitors and challenges legal risk across Barclays Group

Organisation and structure

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 149

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Summary of contents Page
Credit risk represents a significant risk and mainly 
arises from exposure to wholesale and retail loans 
and advances together with the counterparty 
credit risk arising from derivative contracts 
entered into with clients.

■■ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 150
■■ Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer 150

This section outlines the expected credit loss 
allowances, the movements in allowances during 
the period, material management adjustments 
to model output and measurement uncertainty 
and sensitivity analysis.

■■ Expected Credit Losses 153
 – Loans and advances at amortised cost by stage 153
 – Loans and advances at amortised cost by product 155
 – Movement in gross exposure and impairment allowance including 
provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees 156

 – Stage 2 decomposition 157
■■ Management adjustments to models for impairment 158
■■ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 159

Barclays Group reviews and monitors 
risk concentrations in a variety of ways. 
This section outlines performance against 
key concentration risks.

■■ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 164
 – Geographic concentrations 164
 – Industry concentrations 165

■■ Approach to management and representation of credit quality 166
 – Asset credit quality 166
 – Debt securities 167
 – Balance sheet credit quality 167
 – Credit exposures by internal PD grade 169

Credit Risk monitors exposure performance 
across a range of significant portfolios.

■■ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 169
 – Secured home loans 169
 – Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 170

Barclays Group monitors exposures to assets 
where there is a heightened likelihood of default 
and assets where an actual default has occurred. 
From time to time, suspension of certain aspects 
of client credit agreements are agreed, generally 
during temporary periods of financial difficulties 
where Barclays Group is confident that the 
client will be able to remedy the suspension. 
This section outlines the current exposure 
to assets with this treatment.

■■ Forbearance 171
 – Retail forbearance programmes 172
 – Wholesale forbearance programmes 173

This section provides an analysis of credit risk 
on debt securities and derivatives.

■■ Analysis of debt securities 174
■■ Analysis of derivatives 175

Risk review

<Page End><Page Start>
150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to 
Barclays Group and mainly arises from 
exposure to wholesale and retail loans and 
advances together with the counterparty 
credit risk arising from derivative contracts 
entered into with clients.

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from 
1 January 2018, introducing an expected credit 
loss model using forward looking information 
which replaces an incurred loss model. As a 
result of the implementation of IFRS 9, the risk 
appetite and risk management strategy has 
not changed. The presentation of credit risk 
within this risk performance section provides 
additional disclosures under the new 
standard. Further detail can be found in the 
Financial statements section in Note 1 
Significant accounting policies, Note 7 Credit 
impairment charges and other provisions and 
Note 42 Transition disclosures. Descriptions 
of terminology can be found in the glossary, 
available at home.barclays/annualreport.

Summary of performance 
in the period
Credit impairment charges decreased 37% 
to £1,468m primarily driven by single name 
recoveries, updates to consensus-based 
macroeconomic forecasts in the UK and US 
during the year, the non-recurrence of single 
name charges in 2017, portfolio adjustments 
as IFRS 9 has continued to embed and the 
impact of repositioning the US cards portfolio 
towards a lower risk mix. This decrease was 
partially offset by a £150m specific charge 
for the impact of anticipated economic 
uncertainty in the UK. The Barclays Group 
loan loss rate was 44bps (2017: 57bps).

Refer to the credit risk management section 
on pages 137 to 138 for details of governance, 
policies and procedures.

Maximum exposure and 
effects of netting, collateral 
and risk transfer
Basis of preparation
The following tables present a reconciliation 
between the maximum exposure and the 
net exposure to credit risk, reflecting the 
financial effects of risk mitigation reducing 
the exposure. 

For financial assets recognised on the balance 
sheet, maximum exposure to credit risk 
represents the balance sheet carrying value 
after allowance for impairment. For off-
balance sheet guarantees, the maximum 
exposure is the maximum amount that the 
Barclays Group would have to pay if the 
guarantees were to be called upon. For loan 
and other credit related commitments, the 
maximum exposure is the full amount of the 
committed facilities.

Credit risk
The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, 
including sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole 
and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

All disclosures in this section (pages 149 to 175) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics
Reduction in impairment allowances of 

£481m 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances at amortised cost, including off-balance 
sheet elements of the allowance, decreased by £481m to £7,041m (1 January 2018: £7,522m) 
since the adoption of IFRS 9.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 151

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

This and subsequent analyses of credit risk exclude other financial assets not subject to credit risk, mainly equity securities.

The Barclays Group mitigates the credit risk to which it is exposed through netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer. Further detail on 
the Barclays Group's policies to each of these forms of credit enhancement is presented on pages 160 to 162 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 
2018 (unaudited).

Overview
As at 31 December 2018, the Barclays Group's net exposure to credit risk, after taking into account credit risk mitigation, increased 2% to 
£807.4bn. Overall, the extent to which the Barclays Group holds mitigation against its total exposure remains unchanged at 43% (2017: 43%).

Of the unmitigated on balance sheet exposure, a significant portion relates to cash held at central banks, cash collateral and settlement balances, 
and debt securities issued by governments all of which are considered to be lower risk. Increases in trading portfolio assets and financial assets 
at fair value through the income statement have driven the increase in the Barclays Group's net exposure to credit risk. Trading portfolio liability 
positions, which to a significant extent economically hedge trading portfolio assets but which are not held specifically for risk management 
purposes, are excluded from the analysis. The credit quality of counterparties to derivatives, financial investments and wholesale loan assets are 
predominantly investment grade and there are no significant changes from prior year. Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented 
on pages 166 to 169.

Where collateral has been obtained in the event of default, the Barclays Group does not, ordinarily, use such assets for its own operations and they 
are usually sold on a timely basis. The carrying value of assets held by the Barclays Group as at 31 December 2018, as a result of the enforcement 
of collateral, was £6m (2017: £nil).

Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)

As at 31 December 2018

Maximum 
exposure

£m

Netting and 
set-off

£m

Cash 
collateral

£m

Non-cash 
collateral

£m

Risk 
transfer

£m

Net 
exposure

£m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 – – – – 177,069
Cash collateral and settlement balances 77,222 – – – – 77,222
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Home loans 150,284 – (295) (149,679) (132) 178
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 56,431 – (725) (5,608) (451) 49,647
Corporate loans 119,691 (7,550) (65) (41,042) (4,454) 66,580
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 326,406 (7,550) (1,085) (196,329) (5,037) 116,405
Of which credit-impaired (Stage 3):
Home loans 2,125 – (3) (2,083) (31) 8
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 1,249 – (6) (232) (38) 973
Corporate loans 1,762 – – (895) (17) 850
Total credit-impaired loans and advances at amortised cost 5,136 – (9) (3,210) (86) 1,831
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 2,308 – (17) (2,261) – 30
Trading portfolio assets: –
Debt securities 57,283 – – (451) – 56,832
Traded loans 7,234 – – (154) – 7,080
Total trading portfolio assets 64,517 – – (605) – 63,912
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement:
Loans and advances 19,524 – (11) (11,782) (89) 7,642
Debt securities 4,522 – – (445) – 4,077
Reverse repurchase agreements 119,041 – (2,996) (115,601) – 444
Other financial assets 542 – – – – 542
Total financial assets at fair value through the income statement 143,629 – (3,007) (127,828) (89) 12,705
Derivative financial instruments 222,538 (172,001) (31,402) (5,502) (4,712) 8,921
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 51,694 – – – (399) 51,295
Other assets 1,006 – – – – 1,006
Total on-balance sheet 1,066,389 (179,551) (35,511) (332,525) (10,237) 508,565

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 20,303 – (399) (1,418) (190) 18,296
Loan commitments 324,223 – (124) (42,117) (1,395) 280,587
Total off-balance sheet 344,526 – (523) (43,535) (1,585) 298,883

Total 1,410,915 (179,551) (36,034) (376,060) (11,822) 807,448

Off-balance sheet exposures are shown gross of provisions of £271m (2017: £79m). See Note 26 for further details.

In addition to the above, Barclays Group holds forward starting reverse repos with notional contract amounts of £35.5bn (2017: £31.4bn). 
The balances are fully collateralised.

<Page End><Page Start>
152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

Maximum 
exposure

£m

Netting and 
set-off

£m

Cash 
collateral

£m

Non-cash 
collateral

£m

Risk 
transfer

£m

Net 
exposure

£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 – – – – 171,082
Cash collateral and settlement balances 77,168 – – – – 77,168
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Home loans 147,002 – (158) (146,554) – 290
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 55,767 – (241) (3,995) (16) 51,515
Corporate loans 121,279 (6,617) (230) (46,402) (4,378) 63,652
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 324,048 (6,617) (629) (196,951) (4,394) 115,457
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 12,546 – – (12,226) – 320
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 51,200 – – – – 51,200
Traded loans 3,140 – – (128) – 3,012
Total trading portfolio assets 54,340 – – (128) – 54,212
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement:
Loans and advances 11,037 – (440) (5,497) (344) 4,756
Debt securities 15 – – – – 15
Reverse repurchase agreements 100,040 – (426) (99,428) – 186
Other financial assets 519 – – – – 519
Total financial assets at fair value through the income statement 111,611 – (866) (104,925) (344) 5,476
Derivative financial instruments 237,669 (184,265) (33,092) (6,170) (5,885) 8,257
Financial investments – debt securities 57,128 – – (463) (853) 55,812
Other assets 3,022 – – – – 3,022
Total on-balance sheet 1,048,614 (190,882) (34,587) (320,863) (11,476) 490,806

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 19,012 – (318) (1,482) (228) 16,984
Loan commitments 315,573 – (73) (31,069) (1,757) 282,674
Total off-balance sheet 334,585 – (391) (32,551) (1,985) 299,658

Total 1,383,199 (190,882) (34,978) (353,414) (13,461) 790,464

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 153

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Expected Credit Losses
Loans and advances at amortised cost by stage
The table below presents an analysis of loans and advances at amortised cost by gross exposure, impairment allowance, coverage ratio and 
impairment charge by stage allocation and business segment as at 31 December 2018. Also included are off-balance sheet loan commitments 
and financial guarantee contracts by gross exposure and impairment allowance and coverage ratio by stage allocation as at 31 December 2018. 
Barclays does not hold any material purchased or originated credit impaired assets as at year-end.

Loans and advances at amortised cost by stage (audited)

As at 31 December 2018

Gross exposure Impairment allowance

Stage 1
£m

Stage 2 
£m

Stage 3
£m

Total
£m

Stage 1
£m

Stage 2
£m 

Stage 3 
£m

Total
£m

Net
 exposure

£m
Barclays UK 134,911 25,279 3,040 163,230 183 1,389 1,152 2,724 160,506
Barclays International 26,714 4,634 1,830 33,178 352 965 1,315 2,632 30,546
Head Office 6,510 636 938 8,084 9 47 306 362 7,722
Total Barclays Group retail 168,135 30,549 5,808 204,492 544 2,401 2,773 5,718 198,774
Barclays UK 22,824 4,144 1,272 28,240 16 70 117 203 28,037
Barclays International 87,344 8,754 1,382 97,480 128 244 439 811 96,669
Head Office 2,923 – 41 2,964 – – 38 38 2,926
Total Barclays Group wholesale 113,091 12,898 2,695 128,684 144 314 594 1,052 127,632
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 281,226 43,447 8,503 333,176 688 2,715 3,367 6,770 326,406
Off-balance sheet loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contractsa 309,989 22,126 684 332,799 99 150 22 271 332,528
Totalb 591,215 65,573 9,187 665,975 787 2,865 3,389 7,041 658,934

Loan impairment 
charge and loan

 loss rate

As at 31 December 2018

Coverage ratio

Loan
impair-

ment
 charge

£m

Loan 
loss rate

bps 
Stage 1

%
Stage 2

% 
Stage 3

%
Total

%
Barclays UK 0.1 5.5 37.9 1.7 830 51
Barclays International 1.3 20.8 71.9 7.9 844 254
Head Office 0.1 7.4 32.6 4.5 15 19
Total Barclays Group retail 0.3 7.9 47.7 2.8 1,689 83
Barclays UK 0.1 1.7 9.2 0.7 74 26
Barclays International 0.1 2.8 31.8 0.8 (142) –
Head Office – – 92.7 1.3 (31) –
Total Barclays Group wholesale 0.1 2.4 22.0 0.8 (99) –
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 6.2 39.6 2.0 1,590 48
Off-balance sheet loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contractsa – 0.7 3.2 0.1 (125)
Other financial assets subject to impairment 3
Total 0.1 4.4 36.9 1.1 1,468

Notes
a Excludes loan commitments and financial guarantees of £11.7bn carried at fair value.
b Other financial assets subject to impairment not included in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, financial assets at fair value through other 

comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of £129.9bn and impairment allowance of £12m (1 January 2018: £9m). This comprises £10m 
ECL on £129.3bn Stage 1 assets and £2m on £0.6bn Stage 2 fair value through other comprehensive income assets.

<Page End><Page Start>
154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Loans and advances at amortised cost by stage (audited)

As at 1 January 2018

Gross exposure Impairment allowance Net
 exposure

£m
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2 

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m 
Stage 3 

£m
Total

£m

Barclays UK 129,837 25,798 3,152 158,787 142 1,310 1,142 2,594 156,193
Barclays International 22,427 7,051 1,466 30,944 292 1,298 1,080 2,670 28,274
Head Office 6,498 1,596 952 9,046 8 62 294 364 8,682
Total Barclays Group retail 158,762 34,445 5,570 198,777 442 2,670 2,516 5,628 193,149
Barclays UK 22,835 3,880 1,092 27,807 25 88 114 227 27,580
Barclays International 75,331 11,128 2,345 88,804 139 349 694 1,182 87,622
Head Office 8,689 139 74 8,902 2 5 58 65 8,837
Total Barclays Group wholesale 106,855 15,147 3,511 125,513 166 442 866 1,474 124,039
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 265,617 49,592 9,081 324,290 608 3,112 3,382 7,102 317,188
Off-balance sheet loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contractsa 275,364 38,867 1,442 315,673 133 259 28 420 315,253
Totalb 540,981 88,459 10,523 639,963 741 3,371 3,410 7,522 632,441

As at 1 January 2018

Coverage ratio
Stage 1

%
Stage 2 

%
Stage 3

%
Total

%

Barclays UK 0.1 5.1 36.2 1.6
Barclays International 1.3 18.4 73.7 8.6
Head Office 0.1 3.9 30.9 4.0
Total Barclays Group retail 0.3 7.8 45.2 2.8
Barclays UK 0.1 2.3 10.4 0.8
Barclays International 0.2 3.1 29.6 1.3
Head Office – 3.6 78.4 0.7
Total Barclays Group wholesale 0.2 2.9 24.7 1.2
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 6.3 37.2 2.2
Off-balance sheet loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contractsa – 0.7 1.9 0.1
Total 0.1 3.8 32.4 1.2

Notes
a Excludes loan commitments and financial guarantees of £18.9bn carried at fair value.
b Other financial assets subject to impairment not included in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, financial assets at fair value through 

other comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of £128.1bn and impairment allowance of £9m.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 155

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Loans and advances at amortised cost by product 
The table below presents a breakdown of loans and advances at amortised cost and the impairment allowance with stage allocation 
by asset classification.

Loans and advances at amortised cost by product (audited)

As at 31 December 2018
Gross exposure

Stage 1
£m

Stage 2

Stage 3
£m

Total
£m

Not past due
£m

<=30 days
past due

£m

>30 days 
past due

£m
Total

£m
Home loans 130,066 15,672 1,672 862 18,206 2,476 150,748
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 45,785 11,262 530 437 12,229 3,760 61,774
Corporate loans 105,375 12,177 360 475 13,012 2,267 120,654
Total 281,226 39,111 2,562 1,774 43,447 8,503 333,176

Impairment allowance
Home loans 31 56 13 13 82 351 464
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 528 1,895 169 240 2,304 2,511 5,343
Corporate loans 129 300 16 13 329 505 963
Total 688 2,251 198 266 2,715 3,367 6,770

Net exposure
Home loans 130,035 15,616 1,659 849 18,124 2,125 150,284
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 45,257 9,367 361 197 9,925 1,249 56,431
Corporate loans 105,246 11,877 344 462 12,683 1,762 119,691
Total 280,538 36,860 2,364 1,508 40,732 5,136 326,406

Coverage ratio % % % % % % %
Home loans – 0.4 0.8 1.5 0.5 14.2 0.3
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 1.2 16.8 31.9 54.9 18.8 66.8 8.6
Corporate loans 0.1 2.5 4.4 2.7 2.5 22.3 0.8
Total 0.2 5.8 7.7 15.0 6.2 39.6 2.0

As at 1 January 2018
Gross exposure £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Home loans 125,224 17,108 1,612 604 19,324 2,425 146,973
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 40,482 13,562 702 502 14,766 3,544 58,792
Corporate loans 99,911 14,534 407 561 15,502 3,112 118,525
Total 265,617 45,204 2,721 1,667 49,592 9,081 324,290

Impairment allowance
Home loans 38 77 10 13 100 326 464
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 441 2,086 203 245 2,534 2,291 5,266
Corporate loans 129 444 22 12 478 765 1,372
Total 608 2,607 235 270 3,112 3,382 7,102

Net exposure
Home loans 125,186 17,031 1,602 591 19,224 2,099 146,509
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 40,041 11,476 499 257 12,232 1,253 53,526
Corporate loans 99,782 14,090 385 549 15,024 2,347 117,153
Total 265,009 42,597 2,486 1,397 46,480 5,699 317,188

Coverage ratio % % % % % % %
Home loans – 0.5 0.6 2.2 0.5 13.4 0.3
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 1.1 15.4 28.9 48.8 17.2 64.6 9.0
Corporate loans 0.1 3.1 5.4 2.1 3.1 24.6 1.2
Total 0.2 5.8 8.6 16.2 6.3 37.2 2.2

The overall coverage ratio reduced from 2.2% to 2.0% driven predominantly by the reduction of Stage 3 single name exposures within 
Corporate loans.

The credit card, unsecured loans and other retail lending coverage ratio decreased to 8.6% from 9.0% due to the increase in Stage 1 
balances which carry lower levels of ECL, with the Stage 2 increase including an adjustment for the anticipated UK economic uncertainty.

There are relatively low coverage ratios for Stage 3 Home loans and Corporate loans reflecting the secured nature of these exposures.

<Page End><Page Start>
156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Movement in gross exposures and impairment allowance including provisions for loan 
commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
The following tables present a reconciliation of the opening to the closing balance of the exposure and impairment allowance. An explanation 
of the terms 12-month ECL, lifetime ECL and credit-impaired is included on page 273.

Gross exposure for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2 

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
As at 1 January 2018 265,617 49,592 9,081 324,290
Net transfers between stages 1,385 (3,602) 2,217 –
Business activity in the year 74,419 2,680 374 77,473
– of which: Barclays UK 29,467 1,493 326 31,286
– of which: Barclays International 42,346 1,164 44 43,554
Net drawdowns and repayments (13,140) 136 162 (12,842)
– of which: Barclays UK (10,269) (980) (322) (11,571)
– of which: Barclays International (1,305) 1,348 561 604
Final repayments (41,946) (5,359) (1,071) (48,376)
– of which: Barclays UK (11,728) (1,753) (478) (13,959)
– of which: Barclays International (29,421) (3,520) (549) (33,490)
Disposals (5,109) – (369) (5,478)
Write-offs – – (1,891) (1,891)
As at 31 December 2018a 281,226 43,447 8,503 333,176

Impairment allowance on loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2 

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
As at 1 January 2018 608 3,112 3,382 7,102
Net transfers between stages 798 (1,182) 384 –
Business activity in the year 223 173 95 491
Net remeasurement and movement due to exposure and risk parameter changes (865) 638 1,918 1,691
UK economic uncertainty adjustment – 150 – 150
Final repayments (76) (176) (152) (404)
Disposals – – (369) (369)
Write-offs – – (1,891) (1,891)
As at 31 December 2018a 688 2,715 3,367 6,770
Reconciliation of ECL movement to impairment charge/(release) for the period
ECL movement excluding assets derecognised due to disposals and write-offs 1,928
Net recoveries post write-offs (195)
Exchange and other adjustments (143)
Impairment release on loan commitments and financial guaranteesb (125)
Impairment charge on other financial assetsa 3
Income statement charge/(release) for the period 1,468

Note
a Other financial assets subject to impairment not included in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, financial assets at fair value through other 

comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of £129.9bn (1 January 2018: £128.1bn) and impairment allowance of £12m (1 January 2018: £9m). 
This comprises £10m ECL on £129.3bn Stage 1 assets and £2m on £0.6bn Stage 2 fair value through other comprehensive income assets.

b Impairment release of £125m on loan commitments and financial guarantees represents a reduction in impairment allowance of £149m partially offset by exchange and other 
adjustments of £24m.

Gross exposure on loans and advances at amortised cost has increased by £8.9bn in 2018 driven by Stage 1 increases due to:
■■ Growth in Barclays UK Home Loans portfolio of £4.6bn
■■ Increased lending in Portfolio Management, Equity derivatives and Equity financing in Barclays International of £6.6bn
■■ Balance sheet growth and currency exchange movements in US Cards of £2.5bn
■■ New securities for the liquidity asset buffer in the UK Service Company of £2.3bn and £1.0bn in Barclays International, offset by the disposal 

of a long dated liquidity buffer portfolio of UK gilts totalling £5.1bn, reduction in Corporate lending of £2.5bn and continued repayments on 
Italian Mortgages of £1.0bn.

Net transfers between stages represents the movements of positions from, for example, Stage 1 to Stage 2 following a Significant Increase in 
Credit Risk (SICR) or to Stage 3 as positions move into default. Equally, improvement in credit quality will result in positions moving to lower 
stages. These are the primary driver for the changes in impairment allowance and the income statement charge. The improvement in PDs and 
macroeconomic variables during 2018 resulted in net exposures moving from Stage 2 into Stage 1. The transfers into Stage 3 was from defaulted 
assets moving mainly from Stage 2.

Disposals includes the sale of a long dated liqudity buffer portfolio of UK gilts and debt sale activity. Write-offs represent the gross asset write 
down during the period. 

The impairment allowance decreased by £332m in the period. This is due to a net reduction in Barclays International predominantly from 
write-offs and a positive impact of macroeconomic variables changes during the year, offset by a £150m charge in UK Cards and UK Corporate 
loans from anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK. Credit quality across wholesale portfolios and underlying arrears rates in the retail portfolio 
have been relatively stable over the period.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 157

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Gross exposure for loan commitment and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2 

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
As at 1 January 2018 275,364 38,867 1,442 315,673
Net transfers between stages 13,521 (13,552) 31 – 
Business activity in the year 65,404 811 – 66,215
Net drawdowns and repayments (14,491) 4,298 (473) (10,666)
Final repayments (29,809) (8,298) (316) (38,423)
As at 31 December 2018 309,989 22,126 684 332,799

Provision on loan commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2 

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
As at 1 January 2018 133 259 28 420
Net transfers between stages 42 (43) 1 – 
Business activity in the year 18 – – 18
Net remeasurement and movement due to exposure and risk parameter changes (79) (22) 44 (57)
Final repayments (15) (44) (51) (110)
As at 31 December 2018 99 150 22 271

Stage 2 decomposition
Stage 2 decompositiona

As at 31 December 2018
Net exposure

£m

Impairment 
allowance

£m
Quantitative test 28,159 2,506
Qualitative test 12,023 183
30 dpd backstop 550 26
Total Stage 2 40,732 2,715

Note
a Where balances satisfy more than one of the above three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding net exposure and ECL has been assigned 

in order of categories presented.

Stage 2 exposures are predominantly identified using quantitative tests where the lifetime PD has deteriorated more than a pre-determined 
amount since origination. This is augmented by inclusion of accounts meeting the designated high risk criteria (including watchlist) for the 
portfolio under the qualitative test. A small number of other accounts (1% of impairment allowances and 1% of net exposure) are included in 
Stage 2. These accounts are not otherwise identified by the quantitative or qualitative tests but are more than 30 days past due. The percentage 
triggered by this backstop criteria is a measure of the effectiveness of the Stage 2 criteria in identifying deterioration prior to delinquency.

For further detail on the three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk required for Stage 2 classification, refer to Note 7 
on page 273.

<Page End><Page Start>
158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Management adjustments to models for impairment (audited)
Management adjustments to impairment models are applied in order to factor in certain conditions or changes in policy that are not fully 
incorporated into the impairment models, or to reflect additional facts and circumstances at the period end. Management adjustments are 
reviewed and incorporated into future model development where applicable.

Adjustments in portfolios that have total management adjustments to impairment allowance of greater than £10m are presented by product 
below. Information as at 31 December 2018 is prepared on an IFRS 9 basis and information as at 31 December 2017 is prepared on an IAS 39 basis.

During 2018, models have continued to develop and a number of adjustments that were required on IFRS 9 adoption have been incorporated 
in impairment modelling.

Management adjustments to models for impairmenta (audited)

As at 31 December

2018 2017
Management 
adjustments
 to impairment
 allowances, 

including 
forbearance

£m

Proportion 
of total 

impairment
 allowances 

%

Management 
adjustments
 to impairment
 allowances, 

including 
forbearance

£m

Proportion 
of total 

impairment
 allowances 

%

Home loans 54 11.6 71 15.5
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 370 6.9 80 2.6
Corporate loans (7) (0.7) 138 12.1

Note
a Positive values relate to an increase in impairment allowance.

Home loans: Due to the high quality nature of the UK Home Loans portfolio, ECL estimates are low in all but the most severe scenarios. 
An adjustment is held to maintain an appropriate level of ECL.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending: Model related adjustments to maintain adequacy of Loss Given Default estimates and 
retail staging criteria updates were applied during the year. This also includes a £100m ECL adjustment held in UK Cards for the anticipated impact 
of economic uncertainty in the UK.

Corporate loans: Includes a £50m ECL adjustment held in Corporate Bank for the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK, offset by a release 
in the Investment Bank to reduce inappropriate ECL sensitivity to a macroeconomic variable.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 159

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis
The measurement of ECL involves increased complexity and judgement, including estimation of probabilities of default (PD), loss given default 
(LGD), a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives, estimation of exposures at default (EAD) and assessing 
significant increases in credit risk. Impairment charges will tend to be more volatile than under IAS 39 and will be recognised earlier. Unsecured 
products with longer expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, are the most impacted.

Barclays Group uses a five-scenario model to calculate ECL. An external consensus forecast is assembled from key sources, including HM 
Treasury, Bloomberg and the Urban Land Institute, which forms the baseline scenario. In addition, two adverse scenarios (Downside 1 and 
Downside 2) and two favourable scenarios (Upside 1 and Upside 2) are derived, with associated probability weightings. The adverse scenarios 
are calibrated to a similar severity to internal stress tests, whilst also considering IFRS 9 specific sensitivities and non-linearity. Downside 2 is 
benchmarked to the Bank of England's annual cyclical scenarios and to the most severe scenario from Moody's inventory, but is not designed to 
be the same. The favourable scenarios are calibrated to be symmetric to the adverse scenarios, subject to a ceiling calibrated to relevant recent 
favourable benchmark scenarios. The scenarios include six economic core variables, (GDP, unemployment and House Price Index (HPI) in both 
the UK and US markets), and expanded variables using statistical models based on historical correlations. All five scenarios converge to a steady 
state after eight years.

Scenario weights (audited)
The methodology for estimating probability weights for each of the scenarios involves a comparison of the distribution of key historic UK and 
US macroeconomic variables against the forecast paths of the five scenarios. The methodology works such that the baseline (reflecting current 
consensus outlook) has the highest weight and the weights of adverse and favourable scenarios depend on the deviation from the baseline; 
the further from the baseline, the smaller the weight. The probability weights of the scenarios as of 31 December 2018 are shown below. A single 
set of five scenarios is used across all portfolios and all five weights are normalised to equate to 100%. The same scenarios and weights that are 
used in the estimation of expected credit losses are also used for Barclays internal planning purposes. The impacts across the portfolios are 
different because of the sensitivities of each of the portfolios to specific macroeconomic variables, for example, mortgages are highly sensitive 
to house prices and base rates, credit cards and unsecured consumer loans are highly sensitive to unemployment.

The table below shows the core macroeconomic variables for each scenario and the respective scenario weights.

Scenario probability weighting (audited)

As at 31 December 2018
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
Scenario probability weighting 9 24 41 23 3

Macroeconomic variables (audited)

As at 31 December 2018
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
UK GDPa 4.5 3.1 1.7 0.3 (4.1)
UK unemploymentb 3.4 3.9 4.3 5.7 8.8
UK HPIc 46.4 32.6 3.2 (0.5) (32.1)
US GDPa 4.8 3.7 2.1 0.4 (3.3)
US unemploymentb 3.0 3.4 3.7 5.2 8.4
US HPIc 36.9 30.2 4.1 – (17.4)

Notes
a Highest annual growth in Upside scenarios; 5-year average in Baseline; lowest annual growth in Downside scenarios. 
b Lowest point in Upside scenarios; 5-year average in Baseline; highest point in Downside scenarios.
c 5-year cumulative growth in Upside scenarios; 5-year average in Baseline; cumulative fall (peak-to-trough) in Downside scenarios.

Over the year, the macroeconomic baseline variables improved in the US economic outlook, notably HPI. The UK macroeconomic baseline 
variables improved slightly overall.

ECL under 100% weighted scenarios for key principal portfolios (audited)
The table on the next page shows the ECL for key principal portfolios assuming scenarios have been 100% weighted. Gross exposures are 
allocated to a stage based on the individual scenario rather than through a probability-weighted approach as is required for Barclays reported 
impairment allowances. As a result, it is not possible to back solve the weighted ECL from the individual scenarios as a balance may be assigned 
to a different stage dependent on the scenario. 

Material post-model adjustments have been excluded from the below analysis so that the scenario specific results are comparable. Management 
adjustments of greater than £10m can be found on page 158.

The key principal portfolios included in the product split below account for circa 80% of total loans and advances at amortised cost and circa 80% 
of total impairment allowance (including off-balance sheet loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts). Portfolios excluded are those 
where the risk resides outside of the UK or the US; certain less material portfolios; and exposures where ECL estimation methods are based on 
benchmark approaches or assigned proxy coverage ratios.

Balances allocated to Stage 3 do not change in any of the scenarios as the transition criteria relies only on observable evidence of default as at 
31 December 2018 and not on macroeconomic scenarios.

The Downside 2 scenario represents a severe global recession with substantial falls in both UK and US GDP. Unemployment in both markets rises 
towards 9% and there are substantial falls in asset prices including housing.

Under the Downside 2 scenario, balances move between stages as the economic environment weakens. This can be seen in the movement 
of £19.0bn of gross exposure into Stage 2 between the Weighted and Downside 2 scenario. ECL increases in Stage 2 predominantly due to 
unsecured portfolios as economic conditions deteriorate.

<Page End><Page Start>
160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

As at 31 December 2018
Scenarios

Weighted Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2

Stage 1 Gross Exposure (£m)
Home loans 115,573 116,814 116,402 115,924 114,858 109,305
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 30,494 32,104 31,082 30,536 29,846 24,884
Corporate loans 80,835 81,346 81,180 80,941 80,517 73,715
Stage 1 ECL (£m)
Home loans 1 – – – 1 9
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 355 304 343 351 365 388
Corporate loans 175 161 163 162 203 242
Stage 1 Coverage (%)
Home loans – – – – – – 
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 1.2 0.9 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.6
Corporate loans 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3

Stage 2 Gross Exposure (£m)
Home loans 17,455 16,214 16,627 17,105 18,170 23,724
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 10,943 9,334 10,355 10,902 11,591 16,553
Corporate loans 11,377 10,866 11,031 11,271 11,694 18,496
Stage 2 ECL (£m)
Home loans 7 1 1 3 7 172
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 2,013 1,569 1,779 1,969 2,331 4,366
Corporate loans 323 277 290 302 397 813
Stage 2 Coverage (%)
Home loans – – – – – 0.7
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 18.4 16.8 17.2 18.1 20.1 26.4
Corporate loans 2.8 2.5 2.6 2.7 3.4 4.4

Stage 3 Gross Exposure (£m)
Home loans 1,104 1,104 1,104 1,104 1,104 1,104
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 2,999 2,999 2,999 2,999 2,999 2,999
Corporate loansa 1,165 n/a n/a 1,165 n/a n/a
Stage 3 ECL (£m)
Home loans 6 3 4 5 7 27
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 2,200 2,154 2,174 2,199 2,234 2,297
Corporate loansa 333 n/a n/a 323 n/a n/a
Stage 3 Coverage (%)
Home loans 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.7 2.4
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 73.4 71.8 72.5 73.3 74.5 76.6
Corporate loansa 28.6 n/a n/a 27.7 n/a n/a

Total ECL (£m)
Home loans 14 4 5 8 15 208
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending 4,568 4,027 4,296 4,519 4,930 7,051
Corporate loansa 831 n/a n/a 787 n/a n/a

Note
a Material corporate loan defaults are individually assessed across different recovery strategies which are impacted by the macroeconomic variables. As a result, only the Baseline 

scenario is shown together with the weighted estimate which reflects alternative recovery paths.

For portfolios in scope, the total weighted ECL represents a 2% uplift from the Baseline ECL, largely driven by credit card losses which have more 
linear loss profiles than home loans and corporate loan positions.

Home loans: Total ECL and coverage ratios remain steady across the Upside scenarios, Baseline and Downside 1 scenario. However, total ECL 
increases significantly in the Downside 2 scenario to £208m, driven by a significant fall in HPI (32.1%) reflecting the non-linearity of the portfolio. 
The average LTV of the home loans portfolio remains low and as such can withstand a Downside 1 scenario (0.5% fall in HPI) without a significant 
increase in ECL. Total weighted ECL excludes a £54m model adjustment that is held to maintain appropriate level of ECL.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending: Total weighted ECL of £4,568m represents a 1% increase over the Baseline ECL (£4,519m) 
reflecting the range of economic scenarios used. Total ECL increases to £7,051m under Downside 2 scenario, mainly driven by Stage 2, where 
coverage rates increase by 800bps to 26.4% from a weighted scenario approach (18.4%) and a £5,610m increase in gross exposure that meets 
the SICR criteria and transition from Stage 1 to Stage 2. Total weighted ECL excludes model adjustments, including the £100m adjustment for 
the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK.

Corporate loans: Total weighted ECL of £831m represents a 6% increase over the Baseline ECL (£787m) reflecting the range of economic 
scenarios used, with exposures in the Investment Bank particularly sensitive to Downside 2 scenario. Cases in Stage 3 are assessed on an 
individual basis and cases where the Baseline ECL is greater than £10m are also assessed against a less favourable and a more favourable scenario, 
based on alternative recovery outcomes in addition to macroeconomic scenarios. Total weighted ECL excludes model adjustments, including the 
£50m adjustment for the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 161

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Staging sensitivity (audited)
An increase of 1% (£3,332m) of total gross exposure into Stage 2 (from Stage 1), would result in an increase in ECL impairment allowance 
of £200m based on applying the difference in Stage 2 and Stage 1 average impairment coverage ratios to the movement in gross exposure 
(refer to Loans and advances at amortised cost by product on page 155).

ECL sensitivity analysis
The tables on pages 162 and 163 show the estimated ECL impact on key principal portfolios in the event that the UK/US consensus was instead 
for i) positive growth (Upward scenario); and ii) a mild downturn (Downward scenario). These scenarios assume a moderate upturn and 
downturn for the UK and the US respectively but with no contagion or headwinds in other economies.

The gross exposures in scope are aligned to those presented in the ECL under 100% weighted scenarios sensitivity analysis but based on portfolio 
positions as at 30 September 2018 due to operational complexity in scenario regeneration. The portfolios included in the scenario remained 
broadly stable during Q4 2018 and therefore the scenario results are considered representative of the year end position. Material post-model 
adjustments have been excluded from the below analysis to allow the scenario specific results to be comparable. Further detail on management 
adjustments to impairment allowances can be found on page 158.

Gross exposures allocated to Stage 3 do not change in any of the scenarios as the transition criteria relies only on observable evidence of default 
and not on macroeconomic scenarios. For individual cases with ECL greater than £10m, three scenarios are assessed taking into account the 
macroeconomic scenarios and alternative recovery strategies. For these specific cases, the less favourable scenario is assumed to occur in the 
UK/US Downward scenario (and the more favourable scenario is assumed to occur in the UK/US Upward scenario) which is a conservative upper 
estimate as certain recovery strategies are idiosyncratic in nature and independent of the macroeconomic economy. Changes to coverage ratios 
are expressed against the exposures in scope of the sensitivity analysis and not the entire portfolio.

<Page End><Page Start>
162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

ECL sensitivity analysis to UK economic forecasts for key principal portfolios
The table below shows the estimated ECL impact on key principal portfolios for both a positive growth (Upward scenario) and a downturn 
(Downward scenario) of UK consensus macroeconomic variables. The inputs for the Downward scenario have been modelled by replacing 
the Baseline macroeconomic variables with the Downside 1 variables (with no changes to US and other non-UK macroeconomic variables, 
as highlighted below). Similarly, the Upward scenario uses Upside 1 UK macroeconomic variables for the Baseline scenario. The Downside 2, 
Downside 1, Upside 1 and Upside 2 macroeconomic variables are held constant but the probability weights have been re-calibrated. 

Barclays impairment as at 31 December 2018 includes an adjustment of £150m representing a charge for the estimated impact of anticipated 
economic uncertainty in the UK. This adjustment was estimated broadly on the output of the UK Downward scenario below.

Scenario probability weighting
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
UK Upward scenario 18 33 36 11 2
UK Downward scenario 8 18 40 28 6

Macroeconomic variables

As at 31 December 2018
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
UK Upward scenario
UK GDP 4.5 3.1 3.1 0.3 (4.1)
UK unemployment 3.4 3.9 3.9 5.7 8.8
UK HPI 46.4 32.6 32.6 (0.5) (32.1)
US GDP 4.8 3.7 2.1 0.4 (3.3)
US unemployment 3.0 3.4 3.7 5.2 8.4
US HPI 36.9 30.2 4.1 – (17.4)
UK Downward scenario
UK GDP 4.5 3.1 0.3 0.3 (4.1)
UK unemployment 3.4 3.9 5.7 5.7 8.8
UK HPI 46.4 32.6 (0.5) (0.5) (32.1)
US GDP 4.8 3.7 2.1 0.4 (3.3)
US unemployment 3.0 3.4 3.7 5.2 8.4
US HPI 36.9 30.2 4.1 – (17.4)

Sensitivity to UK economic forecasts
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total

Δ UK 
Upward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Downward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Upward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Downward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Upward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Downward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Upward 

scenario

Δ UK 
Downward 

scenario
Gross Exposure (£m)
Home loans 506 (889) (506) 889 – – – – 
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other 
retail lending 294 (252) (294) 252 – – – – 
Corporate loans 79 (13) (79) 13 – – – – 
ECL (£m)
Home loans – – (3) 6 (1) 2 (4) 8
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other 
retail lending (4) 4 (102) 104 (15) 15 (121) 123
Corporate loans 1 7 (4) 13 (46) 28 (49) 48

Home loans: Total ECL increases by £8m in the Downward scenario, driven by the increase in the probability weight attributed to the Downside 2 
scenario. This represents a greater likelihood of the UK economy entering into a severe downturn than under the current consensus.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending: Total ECL decreases by £121m in the Upward scenario driven by £294m of balance 
migration as assets transition from Stage 2 to Stage 1 and lower coverage on Stage 2 assets driven by the more favourable consensus forecast. 
Total ECL increases by £123m in the Downward scenario, mainly driven by the UK cards portfolio.

Corporate loans: Total ECL decreases by £49m in the Upward scenario predominately driven by more favourable recovery outcomes for large 
single names in Stage 3. The Downward scenario results in total ECL impact of £48m, driven by higher coverage in Stage 2 and less favourable 
recovery outcomes for large single names in Stage 3.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 163

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

ECL sensitivity analysis to US economic forecasts for key principal portfolios
The table below shows the estimated ECL impact on key principal portfolios for both a positive growth (Upward scenario) and a downturn 
(Downward scenario) of US consensus macroeconomic variables. The inputs for the Downward scenario have been modelled by replacing 
the Baseline macroeconomic variables with the Downside 1 variables (with no changes to UK and other non-US macroeconomic variables, 
as highlighted below). Similarly, the Upward scenario uses Upside 1 US macroeconomic variables for the Baseline scenario. The Downside 2, 
Downside 1, Upside 1 and Upside 2 macroeconomic variables are held constant but the probability weights have been re-calibrated.

Scenario probability weighting
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
US Upward scenario 18 33 36 11 2
US Downward scenario 5 14 40 34 7

Macroeconomic variables

As at 31 December 2018
Upside 2

%
Upside 1

%
Baseline

%
Downside 1

%
Downside 2

%
US Upward scenario
UK GDP 4.5 3.1 1.7 0.3 (4.1)
UK unemployment 3.4 3.9 4.3 5.7 8.8
UK HPI 46.4 32.6 3.2 (0.5) (32.1)
US GDP 4.8 3.7 3.7 0.4 (3.3)
US unemployment 3.0 3.4 3.4 5.2 8.4
US HPI 36.9 30.2 30.2 – (17.4)
US Downward scenario
UK GDP 4.5 3.1 1.7 0.3 (4.1)
UK unemployment 3.4 3.9 4.3 5.7 8.8
UK HPI 46.4 32.6 3.2 (0.5) (32.1)
US GDP 4.8 3.7 0.4 0.4 (3.3)
US unemployment 3.0 3.4 5.2 5.2 8.4
US HPI 36.9 30.2 – – (17.4)

Sensitivity to US economic forecasts
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total

Δ US 
Upward 

scenario

Δ US 
Downward 

scenario

Δ US 
Upward 

scenario

Δ US 
Downward 

scenario

Δ US 
Upward 

scenario

Δ US 
Downward 

scenario

Δ US 
Upward 

scenario

Δ US 
Downward 

scenario
Gross Exposure (£m)
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other 
retail lending 214 (312) (214) 312 – – – – 
Corporate loans 83 (46) (83) 46 – – – – 
ECL (£m)
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other 
retail lending (4) 6 (76) 144 (6) 7 (86) 157
Corporate loans (3) 10 (15) 34 (35) 54 (53) 98

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending: Total ECL decreases by £86m in Upward scenario driven by £214m of balance migration 
as assets transition from Stage 2 to Stage 1 and lower coverage on Stage 2 assets driven by the more favourable consensus forecast. Total ECL 
impact of £157m in Downward scenario, greater than the Upward scenario, driven by non-linearity effects and the relative severity of the 
Downward scenario.

Corporate loans: Total ECL increases by £98m in the Downward scenario driven by a less favourable recovery outcome for one large single name 
in Stage 3, where Barclays estimated additional losses of £39m in addition to the loss estimated under the Baseline scenario, and higher coverage 
in Stage 2 assets driven by the less favourable consensus forecast. There is a greater impact on coverage ratios (Stage 2 in particular) than the UK 
scenarios driven largely by the underlying portfolio quality, with the US portfolio possessing a higher proportion of unsecured leveraged lending.

<Page End><Page Start>
164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Analysis of the concentration of credit risk
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are located in a common geographical region or are engaged in similar 
activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by 
changes in economic or other conditions. Barclays Group implements limits on concentrations in order to mitigate the risk. The analyses of 
credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged. 

Geographic concentrations
As at 31 December 2018, the geographic concentration of Barclays Group's assets remained broadly consistent with 2017. Exposure is concentrated 
in the UK 41% (2017: 42%), in the Americas 34% (2017: 33%) and Europe 21% (2017: 21%).

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2018

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and
 Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 64,343 66,887 36,045 718 9,076 177,069
Cash collateral and settlement balances 27,418 22,316 22,184 376 4,928 77,222
Loans and advances at amortised cost 240,116 27,913 49,592 3,414 5,371 326,406
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 724 113 68 1,320 83 2,308
Trading portfolio assets 12,444 13,375 34,369 713 3,616 64,517
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 33,842 20,984 73,489 1,758 13,556 143,629
Derivative financial instruments 69,798 80,003 58,699 1,866 12,172 222,538
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 11,494 23,298 13,953 163 2,786 51,694
Other assets 780 125 100 1 – 1,006
Total on-balance sheet 460,959 255,014 288,499 10,329 51,588 1,066,389

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 5,910 3,572 8,996 536 1,289 20,303
Loan commitments 108,506 34,524 175,995 1,852 3,346 324,223
Total off-balance sheet 114,416 38,096 184,991 2,388 4,635 344,526
Total 575,375 293,110 473,490 12,717 56,223 1,410,915

Credit risk concentrations by geography (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

United
Kingdom

£m
Europe

£m
Americas

£m

Africa and
 Middle East

£m
Asia
£m

Total
£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 53,068 57,179 56,034 63 4,738 171,082
Cash collateral and settlement balances 23,852 24,311 23,440 870 4,695 77,168
Loans and advances at amortised cost 240,102 27,223 47,850 3,385 5,488 324,048
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 203 375 10,521 32 1,415 12,546
Trading portfolio assets 10,603 13,620 25,680 473 3,964 54,340
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 33,922 23,725 46,288 1,611 6,065 111,611
Derivative financial instruments 81,656 81,566 57,858 2,792 13,797 237,669
Financial investments – debt securities 17,470 23,598 14,110 114 1,836 57,128
Other assets 1,579 1,179 148 33 83 3,022
Total on-balance sheet 462,455 252,776 281,929 9,373 42,081 1,048,614

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 7,603 3,039 6,708 529 1,133 19,012
Loan commitments 105,912 36,084 168,003 1,608 3,966 315,573
Total off-balance sheet 113,515 39,123 174,711 2,137 5,099 334,585
Total 575,970 291,899 456,640 11,510 47,180 1,383,199

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 165

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Industry concentrations
The concentration of Barclays Group's assets by industry remained broadly consistent year on year. As at 31 December 2018, total assets 
concentrated in banks and other financial institutions was 36% (2017: 36%), predominantly within derivative financial instruments. The proportion 
of the overall balance concentrated in governments and central banks was 20% (2017: 20%), cards, unsecured loans and other personal lending 
was 13% (2017: 13%) and in home loans remained stable at 11% (2017: 11%).

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 
2018

Banks
£m

Other
 financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Con-
struction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and

 central 
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail 

 distri-
 bution and 

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
 unsecured

loans and 
other 

personal 
lending

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances 
at central banks – – – – 177,069 – – – – – – 177,069
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 17,341 48,398 498 75 9,235 386 223 717 – – 349 77,222
Loans and advances 
at amortised cost 9,478 18,653 8,775 23,565 12,764 5,515 11,609 19,716 150,284 55,298 10,749 326,406
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 1,368 865 – 37 38 – – – – – – 2,308
Trading portfolio assets 3,500 9,550 3,825 897 34,968 4,202 1,202 3,481 – – 2,892 64,517
Financial assets at fair 
value through the 
income statement 30,374 96,378 – 8,914 5,331 32 13 2,178 405 – 4 143,629
Derivative financial 
instruments 123,769 80,376 2,390 1,993 5,987 2,791 486 2,004 – – 2,742 222,538
Financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive income 12,135 2,250 – 200 36,973 – – 136 – – – 51,694
Other assets 580 426 – – – – – – – – – 1,006
Total on-balance sheet 198,545 256,896 15,488 35,681 282,365 12,926 13,533 28,232 150,689 55,298 16,736 1,066,389

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 939 3,840 3,470 626 1,890 3,491 952 3,455 – 116 1,524 20,303
Loan commitments 1,267 42,890 39,978 14,362 1,629 26,519 14,566 22,142 8,900 126,640 25,330 324,223
Total off-balance sheet 2,206 46,730 43,448 14,988 3,519 30,010 15,518 25,597 8,900 126,756 26,854 344,526
Total 200,751 303,626 58,936 50,669 285,884 42,936 29,051 53,829 159,589 182,054 43,590 1,410,915

<Page End><Page Start>
166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Credit risk concentrations by industry (audited)

As at 31 December 
2017

Banks
£m

Other
 financial

insti-
tutions

£m

Manu-
facturing

£m

Con-
struction

and 
property

£m

Govern-
ment and

 central 
bank

£m

Energy
and

water
£m

Wholesale
and retail 

 distri-
bution and 

leisure
£m

Business
and other

services
£m

Home
loans

£m

Cards, 
 unsecured

loans and 
other 

personal 
lending

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m

On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances 
at central banks – – – – 171,082 – – – – – – 171,082
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 18,395 48,611 124 233 8,219 585 75 577 – – 349 77,168
Loans and advances 
at amortised cost 9,386 26,312 9,125 23,473 9,097 5,519 12,375 19,906 147,002 54,205 7,648 324,048
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 7,241 4,844 – 153 307 – – 1 – – – 12,546
Trading portfolio assets 4,682 10,672 3,311 807 26,030 3,900 598 3,324 128 – 888 54,340
Financial assets at fair 
value through the 
income statement 21,468 78,506 38 4,666 4,812 2 3 2,083 28 – 5 111,611
Derivative financial 
instruments 126,248 87,272 2,383 2,103 5,811 8,179 576 2,972 – – 2,125 237,669
Financial investments 
– debt securities 10,145 1,379 – – 44,827 103 – 674 – – – 57,128
Other assets 2,300 701 – – 21 – – – – – – 3,022
Total on-balance sheet 199,865 258,297 14,981 31,435 270,206 18,288 13,627 29,537 147,158 54,205 11,015 1,048,614

Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 1,572 3,556 3,236 675 8 2,605 969 4,947 4 389 1,051 19,012
Loan commitments 1,550 31,427 38,105 12,956 384 31,702 14,507 34,415 10,785 126,169 13,573 315,573
Total off-balance sheet 3,122 34,983 41,341 13,631 392 34,307 15,476 39,362 10,789 126,558 14,624 334,585
Total 202,987 293,280 56,322 45,066 270,598 52,595 29,103 68,899 157,947 180,763 25,639 1,383,199

The approach to management and representation of credit quality
Asset credit quality 
The credit quality distribution is based on the IFRS 9 12-month probability of default (PD) at the reporting date. Comparatives are based on the 
regulatory capital point in time probability of default (PD).

The following internal measures are used to determine credit quality for loans:

Default Grade
 Retail and Wholesale lending

Probability of default
Credit Quality

 Description
1-3 0.0 to <0.05% Strong
4-5 0.05 to <0.15%
6-8 0.15 to <0.30%
9-11 0.30 to <0.60%
12-14 0.60 to <2.15% Satisfactory
15-19 2.15 to <11.35%
20-21 11.35 to <100% Higher Risk
22 100% Credit Impaired

For retail clients, a range of analytical tools is used to derive the probability of default of clients at inception and on an ongoing basis.

These credit quality descriptions can be summarised as follows:

Strong: there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.

Satisfactory: while there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Barclays Group, the asset 
may not be collateralised, or may relate to unsecured retail facilities. At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more 
carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value, 
and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.

Higher risk: there is concern over the obligor's ability to make payments when due. However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency. 
There may also be doubts over the value of collateral or security provided. However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments 
when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 167

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Debt securities
For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer. Most listed and 
some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies. The Barclays Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poor's, 
Fitch or Moody's. Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Barclays Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.

Balance sheet credit quality
The following tables present the credit quality of Barclays Group assets exposed to credit risk. 

Overview
As at 31 December 2018, the ratio of the Barclays Group's on-balance sheet assets classified as strong (0.0 to <0.60%) remained stable at 86% 
(2017: 87%) of total assets exposed to credit risk.

Further analysis of debt securities by issuer and issuer type and netting and collateral arrangements on derivative financial instruments is presented 
on pages 174 and 175 respectively.

Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2018

PD range

Total
£m

PD range

Total
%

0.0 to 
<0.60%

£m

0.60 to
 <11.35%

£m

11.35 to
 100%

£m

0.0 to 
<0.60%

%

0.60 to
 <11.35%

%

11.35 to 
100%

%
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 – – 177,069 100 – – 100
Cash collateral and settlement balances 70,455 6,763 4 77,222 91 9 – 100
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Home loans 137,449 9,701 3,134 150,284 92 6 2 100
Credit cards, unsecured and other 
retail lending 21,786 31,664 2,981 56,431 39 56 5 100
Corporate loans 86,271 30,108 3,312 119,691 72 25 3 100
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 245,506 71,473 9,427 326,406 75 22 3 100
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 1,820 444 44 2,308 79 19 2 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 51,896 4,998 389 57,283 90 9 1 100
Traded loans 1,903 4,368 963 7,234 27 60 13 100
Total trading portfolio assets 53,799 9,366 1,352 64,517 83 15 2 100
Financial assets at fair value through 
the income statement:
Loans and advances 13,177 6,295 52 19,524 68 32 – 100
Debt securities 4,380 81 61 4,522 97 2 1 100
Reverse repurchase agreements 85,887 31,813 1,341 119,041 72 27 1 100
Other financial assets 524 18 – 542 97 3 – 100
Total financial assets at fair value through 
the income statement 103,968 38,207 1,454 143,629 72 27 1 100
Derivative financial instruments 211,695 10,791 52 222,538 95 5 – 100
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 51,546 148 – 51,694 100 – – 100
Other assets 723 283 – 1,006 72 28 – 100
Total on-balance sheet 916,581 137,475 12,333 1,066,389 86 13 1 100

<Page End><Page Start>
168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Balance sheet credit quality (audited)

As at 31 December 2017

PD range

Total
£m

PD range

Total
%

0.0 to 
<0.60%

£m

0.60 to
 <11.35%

£m

11.35 to 
100%

£m

0.0 to 
<0.60%

%

0.60 to
 <11.35%

%

11.35 to
 100%

%

Cash and balances at central banks 171,082 – – 171,082 100 – – 100
Cash collateral and settlement balances 72,277 4,619 272 77,168 94 6 100
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Home loans 135,576 5,781 5,645 147,002 92 4 4 100
Credit cards, unsecured and other 
retail lendinga 13,195 34,897 7,675 55,767 24 63 13 100
Corporate loans 75,819 33,093 12,367 121,279 63 27 10 100
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 224,590 73,771 25,687 324,048 73 20 7 100
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 11,430 1,101 15 12,546 91 9 – 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 48,489 2,085 626 51,200 95 4 1 100
Traded loans 1,432 1,189 519 3,140 45 38 17 100
Total trading portfolio assets 49,921 3,274 1,145 54,340 92 6 2 100
Financial assets designated at fair value:
Loans and advances 9,457 817 763 11,037 86 7 7 100
Debt securities – 15 – 15 – 100 – 100
Reverse repurchase agreements 82,263 17,692 85 100,040 82 18 – 100
Other financial assets 482 37 – 519 93 7 – 100
Total financial assets designated at fair value 92,202 18,561 848 111,611 82 17 1 100
Derivative financial instruments 229,262 7,863 544 237,669 96 4 – 100
Financial investments – debt securities 57,106 18 4 57,128 100 – – 100
Other assets 2,570 411 41 3,022 85 14 1 100
Total on-balance sheet 910,440 109,618 28,556 1,048,614 87 10 3 100

Note
a 2017 figures have been restated to more accurately reflect the credit quality distribution within credit cards, unsecured and retail lending.
 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 169

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Credit exposures by internal PD grade
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)

Credit quality description

Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL Net
 exposure

£m

ECL
 coverage

%
PD range

%
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Strong 0.0 to <0.60% 232,163 13,556 – 245,719 146 67 – 213 245,506 0.1
Satisfactory 0.60 to <11.35% 48,730 24,768 – 73,498 508 1,517 – 2,025 71,473 2.8
Higher Risk 11.35 to <100% 333 5,123 – 5,456 34 1,131 – 1,165 4,291 21.4
Credit Impaired 100% – – 8,503 8,503 – – 3,367 3,367 5,136 39.6
Total 281,226 43,447 8,503 333,176 688 2,715 3,367 6,770 326,406 2.0

Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for contingent liabilities (audited)a

Credit quality description

Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL Net
 exposure

£m

ECL
 coverage

%
PD range

%
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Strong 0.0 to <0.60% 15,000 443 – 15,443 6 3 – 9 15,434 0.1
Satisfactory 0.60 to <11.35% 3,541 964 – 4,505 10 14 – 24 4,481 0.5
Higher Risk 11.35 to <100% 49 228 – 277 – 10 – 10 267 3.6
Credit Impaired 100% – – 74 74 – – 2 2 72 2.7
Total 18,590 1,635 74 20,299 16 27 2 45 20,254 0.2

Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loan commitments (audited)a

Credit quality description

Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL Net
 exposure

£m

ECL
 coverage

%
PD range

%
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Stage 1

£m
Stage 2

£m
Stage 3

£m
Total

£m
Strong 0.0 to <0.60% 206,511 5,440 – 211,951 21 5 – 26 211,925 –
Satisfactory 0.60 to <11.35% 84,141 11,806 – 95,947 59 80 – 139 95,808 0.1
Higher Risk 11.35 to <100% 747 3,245 – 3,992 3 38 – 41 3,951 1.0
Credit Impaired 100% – – 610 610 – – 20 20 590 3.3
Total 291,399 20,491 610 312,500 83 123 20 226 312,274 0.1

Note
a Excludes loan commitments and financial guarantees of £11.7bn carried at fair value.

Stage 1 higher risk assets, presented gross of associated collateral held, are of weaker credit quality but have not significantly deteriorated 
since origination. Examples would include leveraged corporate loans or non-prime credit cards.

IFRS 9 Stage 1 and Stage 2 classification is not dependent solely on the absolute probability of default but on elements that determine a 
Significant Increase in Credit Risk (see Note 7 on page 273), including relative movement in probability of default since initial recognition.  
There is therefore no direct relationship between credit quality and IFRS 9 stage classification.

Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types
This section provides an analysis of principal portfolios and businesses, in particular, home loans, credit cards, unsecured loans and other 
retail lending.

Secured home loans
The UK home loans portfolio comprises first lien home loans and accounts for 91% (2017: 90%) of Barclays Group's total home loan balances.

Home loans principal portfolios

As at 31 December
Barclays UK

2018 2017
Gross loans and advances (£m) 136,517 132,132
30-day arrears rate, excluding recovery book (%) 0.4 0.4
90-day arrears rate, excluding recovery book (%) 0.1 0.1
Annualised gross charge-off rates – 180 days past due (%) 0.3 0.2
Recovery book proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.2 0.3
Recovery book impairment coverage ratio (%) 7.1 11.2

Despite the proposed UK withdrawal from the European Union creating large levels of uncertainty in the housing market and competitor pricing 
putting pressure on new flow, portfolio stock has increased year on year. However, delinquencies remain very low and stable and recovery stock 
has reduced. Recovery book coverage rate reduced to 7.1% (2017: 11.2%) reflecting the new impairment methodology following the transition 
to IFRS 9.

Within the UK home loans portfolio:
■■ Owner-occupied interest-only home loans comprised 26% (2017: 28%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV on these loans 

decreased to 38.8% (2017: 39.7%). The 90-day arrears rate excluding recovery book remained steady at 0.3% (2017: 0.3%)
■■ Buy to Let (BTL) home loans comprised 12% (2017: 11%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV increased to 55.4% 

(2017: 53.7%) driven by the volume of new business written. Whilst the average balance weighted LTV of new business remained stable during 
2018, it is higher than for the existing book and increased the total book average figure as a result. This increase was partially offset by increases 
in house prices applied during the second half of the year with positive movements in HPI reported. The BTL 90-day arrears rate excluding 
recovery book remained steady at 0.1% (2017: 0.1%).

<Page End><Page Start>
170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Home loans principal portfolios – distribution of balances by LTVa

As at 31 December 2018

Distribution 
of balances

%

Distribution 
of 

impairment
 allowance

%

Coverage 
ratio

%
Barclays UK
<=75% 90.6 50.9 –
>75% and <=90% 8.6 22.1 0.1
>90% and <=100% 0.7 7.7 0.5
>100% 0.1 19.3 10.8

Note
a Portfolio mark to market based on the most updated valuation including recovery book balances. Updated valuations reflect the application of the latest HPI available 

as at 31 December 2018.

Home loans principal portfolios – average LTV

As at 31 December
Barclays UK

2018 2017
Overall portfolio LTV (%):
Balance weighted 48.9 47.6
Valuation weighted 35.8 35.2
>100% LTVs:
Balances (£m) 147 215
Mark to market collateral (£m) 130 188
Average LTV: balance weighted (%) 134.0 127.7
Average LTV: valuation weighted (%) 119.1 118.6
Balances in recovery book (%) 5.5 5.9

The reduction in home loans that have LTV >100% to £147m (2017: £215m) was driven by increases in HPI through the second half of the year.

Home loans principal portfolios – new lending

As at 31 December
Barclays UK

2018 2017

New bookings (£m) 23,008 22,665
New home loan proportion above 90% LTV (%) 1.8 2.1
Average LTV on new home loans: balance weighted (%) 65.4 63.8
Average LTV on new home loans: valuation weighted (%) 57.4 56.0

Head Office: Italian home loans and advances at amortised cost reduced to £7.9bn (1 January 2018: £8.8bn) and continue to run-off since 
new bookings ceased in 2016. The portfolio is secured on residential property with an average balance weighted mark to market LTV of 61.8% 
(2017: 61.0%). 90-day arrears and gross charge-off rates remained stable at 1.4% (2017: 1.4%) and 0.8% (2017: 0.8%) respectively.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending
The principal portfolios listed below accounted for 87% (2017: 87%) of Barclays Group's total credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending.

Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending principal portfolios

Gross loans 
and advances

£m

30-day 
arrears,

 excluding
 recovery 

book
%

90-day 
arrears,

 excluding
 recovery 

book
%

Annualised 
gross

 charge-off 
rate

%
As at 31 December 2018
Barclays UK
UK cards 17,285 1.8 0.9 4.7
UK personal loans 6,335 2.3 1.1 3.7
Barclays International
US cards 22,178 2.7 1.4 5.7
Barclays partner finance 4,216 1.1 0.4 2.3
Germany consumer lending 3,545 1.9 0.8 2.9
As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK
UK cards 17,686 1.8 0.8 5.0
UK personal loans 6,255 2.5 1.2 3.3
Barclays International
US cards 21,350 2.6 1.3 5.0
Barclays partner finance 3,814 1.3 0.5 2.6
Germany consumer lending 3,384 2.3 1.0 3.2

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 171

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

UK cards: 30- and 90-day arrears rates remained stable. The annualised gross charge-off rate reduced to 4.7% (2017: 5.0%) as a result 
of charge-offs returning to stabilised levels in 2018 following one-off accelerated charge-offs in 2017.

UK personal loans: 30- and 90-day arrears rates reduced slightly, whilst the annualised charge-off rate increased. These movements were as 
a result of accounts that had remained in collections longer than expected in 2017 being moved to charge-off following resolution of collections 
performance issues.

US cards: The annualised gross charge-off rate increased to 5.7% (2017: 5.0%) broadly in line with trends across the industry and change 
in portfolio mix reflecting a one-off asset sale benefiting 2017.

Barclays partner finance: 30- and 90-day arrear rates reduced driven by improved quality of new business and better arrears management. 

Germany consumer lending: Arrears and charge-off rates reduced due to improved performance in collections along with booking lower 
risk business.

Forbearance
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards a debtor that is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting their financial 
commitments (‘financial difficulties').

Analysis of forbearance programmes

Balances
Impairment 
Allowances

As at 31 December 2018
Barclays UK 647 172
Barclays International 233 190
Head Office 165 10
Total retail 1,045 372
Barclays UK 671 45
Barclays International 2,284 241
Head Office – –
Total wholesale 2,955 286
Group total 4,000 658

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 847 226
Barclays International 210 86
Head Office 186 11
Total retail 1,243 323
Barclays UK 606 31
Barclays International 2,347 519
Head Office – –
Total wholesale 2,953 550
Group total 4,196 873

Balances on forbearance programmes decreased 5% driven by better portfolio performance. 

Retail balances on forbearance reduced 16% to £1.0bn, reflecting a decrease in Barclays UK partially offset by an increase in Barclays International 
portfolios.
■■ Barclays UK: continued to reduce reflecting the ongoing improvements in operational effectiveness over the past two years along with 

improving arrears rates and accounts completing and exiting plans.
■■ Barclays International: US cards forbearance balances increased to £177m (2017: £148m) in line with book size but as a percentage of total 

balance remained low (<1%). 

Wholesale balances on forbearance remained stable at £3.0bn (2017: £3.0bn) with a reduction in CIB of £280m offset by an increase in Wealth BI 
of £211m. Impairment allowance reduced to £286m (2017: £550m) reflecting significant write-offs and single name releases within CIB. Barclays 
International accounted for 77% of Wholesale forbearance with corporate cases representing 72% of all forborne balances. 

<Page End><Page Start>
172 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Retail forbearance programmes
Forbearance on Barclays Group's principal retail portfolios is presented below. The principal portfolios account for 84% (2017: 75%) of total retail 
forbearance balances.

Analysis of key portfolios in forbearance programmes

Balances on forbearance 
programmes

Mark 
to market 

LTV of
 forbearance

 balances:
 balance

 weighted
%

Mark 
to market 

LTV of
 forbearance

 balances:
 valuation
 weighted

%

Impairment
 allowances

 marked
 against

 balances on
 forbearance
 programmes

£m

Total 
balances on

 forbearance
 programmes

 coverage 
ratio

%
Total

£m

% of gross
 retail loans

 and 
advances

%
As at 31 December 2018
Barclays UK
UK home loans 296 0.2 41.6 29.8 – –
UK cards 289 1.7 n/a n/a 121 41.9
UK personal loans 62 1.0 n/a n/a 51 82.3
Barclays International
US cards 177 0.8 n/a n/a 131 74.0
Barclays partner finance 6 0.1 n/a n/a 4 66.7
Germany consumer lending 46 1.3 n/a n/a 28 60.9

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK
UK home loans 355 0.3 43.2 31.0 4 1.1
UK cards 302 1.7 n/a n/a 179 59.3
UK personal loans 77 1.2 n/a n/a 30 39.0
Barclays International
US cards 148 0.7 n/a n/a 58 39.2
Barclays partner finance 9 0.2 n/a n/a 7 77.8
Germany consumer lending 47 1.4 n/a n/a 17 36.2

UK home loans: Forbearance stock reduced to £296m (2017: £355m), due to operational effectiveness and accounts successfully exiting plans.

UK cards: Forbearance balances reduced due to tightening of entry criteria. The coverage ratio reduction was driven by the transition to IFRS 9 
model which removed some conservatism and updates to debt sale parameters.

UK personal loans: Forbearance reduced to £62m (2017: £77m), predominantly as a result of tightening criteria for short-term plans. Longer-term 
forbearance plans remained the preferred offering and maintained a steady trend across 2018. Term extensions increased, albeit remained low 
at £9m.

US cards: Forbearance balances increased to £177m (2017: £148m) reflecting book growth, but remain low (<1%) as a percentage of total balance.

Barclays partner finance: Forbearance plan reduction was primarily driven by operational process changes introduced in 2018 whereby customers 
on long-term plans with two missed payments and experiencing financial difficulty were placed on alternative plans and impaired appropriately.

Germany consumer lending: The increase in coverage ratios was primarily driven by transition to IFRS 9 methodology. 

Forbearance by type

As at 31 December

Barclays UK Barclays International
UK home loans UK cards UK personal loans US cards
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m

Payment concession 80 94 69 84 – – – –
Interest-only conversion 60 75 – – – – – –
Term extension 154 184 – – 9 8 – –
Fully amortising – – – – 52 54 160 135 
Repayment plana – – 89 96 1 15 17 13 
Interest rate concession 2 2 131 122 – – – –
Total 296 355 289 302 62 77 177 148 

Note
a Repayment plan represents a reduction to the minimum payment due requirements and interest rate.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 173

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Wholesale forbearance programmes
The tables below detail balance information for wholesale forbearance cases.

Analysis of wholesale balances in forbearance programmes
Balances on forbearance 

programmes
Impairment
 allowances

 marked
 against

 balances on
 forbearance 
programmes

£m

Total 
balances on

 forbearance
 programmes 

coverage 
ratio

%

Total 
balances

£m

% of gross 
wholesale
 loans and
 advances

%
As at 31 December 2018
Barclays UK 671 2.4 45 6.7
Barclays International 2,284 2.3 241 10.6
Total 2,955 2.3 286 9.7

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 606 2.1 31 5.1
Barclays International 2,347 1.4 519 22.1
Total 2,953 1.4 550 18.6

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by exposure class

Corporate
£m

Personal 
and trusts

£m
Other

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 3 – – 3
Restructure: maturity date extension 286 186 2 474
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 450 31 – 481
Restructure: payment other than cash 18 – – 18
Change in security 10 3 – 13
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 1,040 177 1 1,218
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 452 295 1 748
Total 2,259 692 4 2,955

As at 31 December 2017
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 5 – – 5
Restructure: maturity date extension 373 26 – 399
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 297 – – 297
Restructure: payment other than cash 16 – – 16
Change in security 9 – – 9
Adjustments or non-enforcement of covenants 1,477 101 1 1,579
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 474 174 – 648
Total 2,651 301 1 2,953

<Page End><Page Start>
174 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Credit risk

Wholesale forbearance reporting split by business unit

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 1 2 3
Restructure: maturity date extension 129 345 474
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 286 195 481
Restructure: payment other than cash – 18 18
Change in security 3 10 13
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 132 1,086 1,218
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 120 628 748
Total 671 2,284 2,955

As at 31 December 2017
Restructure: reduced contractual cash flows 3 2 5
Restructure: maturity date extension 90 309 399
Restructure: changed cash flow profile (other than extension) 199 98 297
Restructure: payment other than cash – 16 16
Change in security – 9 9
Adjustments or non-enforcements of covenants 223 1,356 1,579
Other (e.g. capital repayment holiday; restructure pending) 91 557 648
Total 606 2,347 2,953

Wholesale forbearance flows in 2018
£m

As at 1 January 2018 2,953
Added to forbearance 2,082
Removed from forbearance (credit improvement) (1,126)
Fully or partially repaid and other movements (679)
Written off/moved to recovery book (275)
As at 31 December 2018 2,955

Analysis of debt securities
Debt securities include government securities held as part of the Barclays Group's treasury management portfolio for liquidity and regulatory 
purposes, and are for use on a continuing basis in the activities of the Barclays Group.

The following tables provide an analysis of debt securities held by the Barclays Group for trading and investment purposes by issuer type, 
and where the Barclays Group held government securities exceeding 10% of shareholders' equity.

Further information on the credit quality of debt securities is presented on pages 167 to 168. 

Debt securities

As at 31 December
2018 2017

£m % £m %
Of which issued by: 
Governments and other public bodies 76,646 64.6 69,981 64.5
Corporate and other issuers 30,767 26.0 27,976 25.9
US agency 7,014 5.9 7,868 7.3
Mortgage and asset backed securities 4,143 3.5 2,520 2.3
Total 118,570 100.0 108,345 100.0

Government securities

As at 31 December

2018
Fair value

£m

2017
Fair value

£m

United States 31,199 21,570
United Kingdom 19,555 19,475

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 175

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Analysis of derivatives
The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting 
arrangements for which the Barclays Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.

Derivative assets (audited)

 
As at 31 December

2018 2017
Balance 

sheet
assets

£m

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m

Balance 
sheet

assets
£m

Counterparty
netting

£m

Net
exposure

£m

Foreign exchange 64,188 50,189 13,999 54,943 42,117 12,826
Interest rate 125,272 95,572 29,700 153,043 117,559 35,484
Credit derivatives 10,755 8,450 2,305 12,549 9,952 2,597
Equity and stock index 20,882 16,653 4,229 14,698 12,702 1,996
Commodity derivatives 1,441 1,137 304 2,436 1,935 501
Total derivative assets 222,538 172,001 50,537 237,669 184,265 53,404
Cash collateral held 31,402 33,092
Net exposure less collateral 19,135 20,312

Derivative asset exposures would be £203bn (2017: £217bn) lower than reported under IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities 
with the same counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral. Similarly, derivative liabilities would be £202bn (2017: £217bn) lower 
reflecting counterparty netting and collateral placed. In addition, non-cash collateral of £6bn (2017: £6bn) was held in respect of derivative assets. 
The Group received collateral from clients in support of over the counter derivative transactions. These transactions are generally undertaken 
under International Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA) agreements governed by either UK or New York law.

The table below sets out the fair value and notional amounts of OTC derivative instruments by type of collateral arrangement.

Derivatives by collateral arrangement
2018 2017

Notional
 contract

amount
£m

Fair value Notional 
contract
amount

£m

Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Unilateral in favour of Barclays
Foreign exchange 22,639 473 (369) 18,280 484 (345)
Interest rate 4,762 769 (25) 5,495 868 (26)
Credit derivatives 54 1 – – – – 
Equity and stock index 107 17 – 6 3 – 
Commodity derivatives – – – 243 – (9)
Total unilateral in favour of Barclays 27,562 1,260 (394) 24,024 1,355 (380)
Unilateral in favour of counterparty
Foreign exchange 14,221 530 (1,641) 21,052 720 (1,851)
Interest rate 64,504 2,925 (4,090) 74,412 8,458 (9,934)
Credit derivatives 78 1 (3) 283 6 (3)
Equity and stock index 714 242 (31) 1,030 432 (53)
Commodity derivatives – – – 515 4 (6)
Total unilateral in favour of counterparty 79,517 3,698 (5,765) 97,292 9,620 (11,847)
Bilateral arrangement
Foreign exchange 4,788,711 58,772 (56,392) 4,318,754 48,660 (46,403)
Interest rate 9,699,149 116,712 (114,091) 8,060,574 135,465 (131,334)
Credit derivatives 380,546 6,339 (5,002) 404,069 7,337 (5,903)
Equity and stock index 177,496 7,984 (8,494) 144,255 6,178 (9,099)
Commodity derivatives 9,635 492 (330) 11,801 630 (575)
Total bilateral arrangement 15,055,537 190,299 (184,309) 12,939,453 198,270 (193,314)
Uncollateralised derivatives
Foreign exchange 371,158 4,243 (5,495) 380,823 4,442 (4,256)
Interest rate 205,050 3,454 (1,138) 202,053 4,215 (1,715)
Credit derivatives 5,830 234 (234) 6,808 252 (327)
Equity and stock index 12,179 1,468 (3,305) 16,448 884 (5,917)
Commodity derivatives 121 29 (78) 4,661 60 (266)
Total uncollateralised derivatives 594,338 9,428 (10,250) 610,793 9,853 (12,481)
Total OTC derivative assets/(liabilities) 15,756,954 204,685 (200,718) 13,671,562 219,098 (218,022)

<Page End><Page Start>
176 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Summary of contents Page
Outlines key measures used to summarise 
the market risk profile of the bank such as value 
at risk (VaR). A distinction is made between 
management and regulatory measures.

■■ Market risk overview and summary of performance 177

Provides a Barclays Group-wide overview of 
where assets and liabilities on Barclays Group's 
balance sheet are managed within regulatory 
traded and non-traded books.

■■ Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 178

Barclays Group discloses details on management 
measures of market risk. Total management VaR 
includes all trading positions and is presented 
on a diversified basis by risk factor. 

This section also outlines the macroeconomic 
conditions modelled as part of Barclays Group's 
risk management framework.

Barclays Group's regulatory measures of market 
risk under the approved internal models approach 
are also disclosed.

■■ Traded market risk 179
■■ Review of management measures 179

 – The daily average, maximum and minimum values of management VaR 179
 – Business scenario stresses 179

■■ Review of regulatory measures 180
 – Analysis of regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive Risk Measure 180
 – Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolio 180

Risk performance
Market risk

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 177

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview of market risk
This section contains key statistics describing 
the market risk profile of Barclays Group. 
A distinction is made between regulatory 
and management measures within the 
section. The market risk management section 
on pages 163 to 170 of the Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited) provides 
descriptions of these metrics:
■■ page 178 provides a view of market risk 

in the context of Barclays Group's 
balance sheet

■■ page 139 covers the management of market 
risk. Management measures are shown 
on page 179 and regulatory equivalent 
measures are shown on page 180.

Measures of market risk 
in Barclays Group and 
accounting measures
Traded market risk measures such as VaR 
and balance sheet exposure measures have 
fundamental differences:
■■ balance sheet measures show accruals-

based balances or mark to market values 
as at the reporting date

■■ VaR measures also take account of current 
mark to market values, but in addition 
hedging effects between positions 
are considered 

■■ market risk measures are expressed 
in terms of changes in value or volatilities 
as opposed to static values.

For these reasons, it is not possible to present 
direct reconciliations of traded market risk 
and accounting measures. The table ‘Balance 
sheet split by trading and banking books', 
on page 178, helps the reader understand 
the main categories of assets and liabilities 
subject to regulatory market risk measures.

Summary of performance 
in the period
Overall, Barclays Group has maintained 
a steady risk profile:
■■ Measures of traded market risk have 

been relatively stable over 2018.

Market risk
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets and 
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

All disclosures in this section on pages 176 to 180 are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

Average management value at risk 

+11%
in 2018 at £21m (2017: £19m) remained relatively stable. 

This small increase was driven by a higher volatility environment compared to 2017.

<Page End><Page Start>
178 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Market risk

Risk review

Balance sheet view of trading and banking books
As defined by regulatory rules, a trading book consists of positions held for trading intent or to hedge elements of the trading book. Trading intent 
must be evidenced in the basis of the strategies, policies and procedures set up by the firm to manage the position or portfolio. The table below 
provides a Group-wide overview of where assets and liabilities on the Barclays Group's balance sheet are managed within regulatory traded and 
non-traded books.

The balance sheet split by trading book and banking books is shown on an IFRS accounting scope of consolidation. The reconciliation between 
the accounting and regulatory scope of consolidation is shown in table 1 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited).

Balance sheet split by trading and banking books

As at 31 December 2018

Banking 
booka

£m

Trading 
book

£m
Total

£m
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 – 177,069
Cash collateral and settlement balances 60,309 16,913 77,222
Loans and advances at amortised cost 326,406 – 326,406
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 2,260 48 2,308
Trading portfolio assets 6,479 97,708 104,187
Financial assets designated at fair value 12,656 136,992 149,648
Derivative financial instruments 688 221,850 222,538
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 52,816 – 52,816
Investments in associates and joint ventures 762 – 762
Goodwill and intangible assets 7,973 – 7,973
Property, plant and equipment 2,535 – 2,535
Current tax assets 798 – 798
Deferred tax assets 3,828 – 3,828
Retirement benefit assets 1,768 – 1,768
Other assets 3,425 – 3,425
Total assets 659,772 473,511 1,133,283

Deposits at amortised cost 393,492 1,346 394,838
Cash collateral and settlement balances 43,883 23,639 67,522
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 17,009 1,569 18,578
Debt securities in issue 82,286 – 82,286
Subordinated liabilities 20,559 – 20,559
Trading portfolio liabilities – 37,882 37,882
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 7,592 209,242 216,834
Derivative financial instruments 734 218,909 219,643
Current tax liabilities 628 – 628
Deferred tax liabilities 51 – 51
Retirement benefit liabilities 315 – 315
Other liabilities 7,716 – 7,716
Provisions 2,652 – 2,652
Total liabilities 576,917 492,587 1,069,504

Note
a The primary risk factors for banking book assets and liabilities are interest rates and to a lesser extent, foreign exchange rates. Credit spreads and equity prices will also be factors 

where Barclays Group holds debt and equity securities respectively, either as financial assets designated at fair value (see Note 13) or as financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (see Note 15) of the financial statements.

Included within the trading book are assets and liabilities which are included in the market risk regulatory measures. For more information on 
these measures (VaR, SVaR, IRC and CRM) see the risk management section on page 166 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 179

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Traded market risk review
Review of management measures
The following disclosures provide details on management measures of market risk. Refer to the market risk management section on pages 164 
to 166 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited) for more detail on management measures and the differences when compared to 
regulatory measures.

The table below shows the total management VaR on a diversified basis by risk factor. Total management VaR includes all trading positions 
in CIB and Head Office.

Limits are applied against each risk factor VaR as well as total Management VaR, which are then cascaded further by risk managers to 
each business.

The daily average, maximum and minimum values of management VaR
Management VaR (95%, one day) (audited) 

For the year ended 31 Decembera

2018 2017
Average

£m
Highb

£m
Lowb
£m

Average
£m

Highb
£m

Lowb
£m

Credit risk 11 16 8 12 18 8
Interest rate risk 8 19 3 8 15 4
Equity risk 7 14 4 8 14 4
Basis risk 6 8 4 5 6 3
Spread risk 6 9 3 5 8 3
Foreign exchange risk 3 7 2 3 7 2
Commodity risk 1 2 – 2 3 1
Inflation risk  3 4 2 2 4 1
Diversification effectb (24) n/a n/a (26) n/a n/a
Total management VaR 21 27 15 19 26 14

Notes
a Excludes BAGL from 23 July 2018.
b  Diversification effects recognise that forecast losses from different assets or businesses are unlikely to occur concurrently, hence the expected aggregate loss is lower than the 

sum of the expected losses from each area. Historical correlations between losses are taken into account in making these assessments. The high and low VaR figures reported 
for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low VaR reported as a whole. Consequently, a diversification effect balance for the high and low 
VaR figures would not be meaningful and is therefore omitted from the above table.

Management VaR remained relatively stable year on year. The marginal increase in average management VaR in 2018 was due to a higher volatility 
environment compared to 2017.

Barclays Group Management VaRa (£m)

Jan 2017

40

20

30

10

Jan 2018 Dec 2018

Note 
a Excludes BAGL from 23 July 2018.

Business scenario stresses
As part of Barclays Group's risk management framework, on a regular basis the performance of the trading business in hypothetical scenarios 
characterised by severe macroeconomic conditions is modelled. Up to seven global scenarios are modelled on a regular basis, for example, 
a sharp deterioration in liquidity, a slowdown in the global economy, global recession, and a sharp increase in economic growth.

In 2018, the scenario analyses showed that the largest market risk related impacts would be due to a severe deterioration in financial liquidity 
and global recession.

<Page End><Page Start>
180 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Market risk

Risk review

Review of regulatory measures
The following disclosures provide details on regulatory measures of market risk. Refer to pages 166 and 167 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 
2018 (unaudited) for more detail on regulatory measures and the differences when compared to management measures.

Barclays Group's market risk capital requirement comprises of two elements:
■■ the market risk of trading book positions booked to legal entities are measured under a PRA approved internal models approach, including 

Regulatory VaR, Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR), Incremental Risk Charge (IRC) and Comprehensive Risk Measure (CRM) as required 
■■ the trading book positions that do not meet the conditions for inclusion within the approved internal models approach are calculated using 

standardised rules.

The table below summarises the regulatory market risk measures, under the internal models approach. Refer to Table 80 Market risk own fund 
requirements', on page 119 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited) for a breakdown of capital requirements by approach.

Analysis of Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and Comprehensive Risk Measurea
Year-end

£m
Avg
£m

Max
£m

Min
£m

As at 31 December 2018
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 24 27 41 19
Regulatory VaR (10-day)b 76 87 129 61
SVaR (1-day) 83 67 112 41
SVaR (10-day)b 262 211 355 130
IRC 146 126 219 52
CRM – – – –
As at 31 December 2017
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 28 27 39 19
Regulatory VaR (10-day)b 90 85 123 60
SVaR (1-day) 59 63 105 41
SVaR (10-day)b 186 200 331 130
IRC 188 202 326 142
CRM – 1 2 –

Notes
a Excludes BAGL from 23 July 2018.
b The 10-day VaR is based on scaling of 1-day VaR model output since VaR is currently not modelled for a 10-day holding period.

Overall, there was an increase in SVaR and a decrease in IRC in 2018, with no significant movements in other internal model components: 
■■ Regulatory VaR: Average VaR was broadly unchanged compared to the previous year
■■ SVaR: Average SVaR increase was due to a change in the date range selected for the one-year stressed period
■■ IRC: Decrease mainly driven by decrease in Rates and Fixed Income Financing, offset by the Foreign Exchange business
■■ CRM: Remained at zero throughout the year.

Breakdown of the major regulatory risk measures by portfolioa

Macro
£m

Equities
£m

Credit
£m

Barclays
 InternationaI

 Treasury
£m

Banking
£m

Barclays 
Group

 Treasury
£m

Financial 
Resource 

Managementb
£m

Investing 
and

 Lendingb
£m

As at 31 December 2018
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 10 19 14 – 10 5 10 1
Regulatory VaR (10-day) 31 60 45 1 30 17 31 2
SVaR (1-day) 64 59 30 1 20 13 20 4
SVaR (10-day) 203 187 95 2 63 40 64 11
IRC 154 7 209 – 14 9 84 5
CRM – – – – – – – –
As at 31 December 2017
Regulatory VaR (1-day) 13 6 19 – 5 6 8 –
Regulatory VaR (10-day) 42 20 59 – 16 18 25 –
SVaR (1-day) 23 11 41 – 10 11 20 –
SVaR (10-day) 72 35 130 1 30 35 64 –
IRC 203 5 270  – 1 10 65 –
CRM – – – – – – – –

Notes
a Excludes BAGL.
b A hierarchy change affecting Financial Resource Management resulted in the creation of the new Investing and Lending portfolio during 2018.

The table above shows the primary portfolios which are driving the trading businesses' modelled capital requirement as at 2018 year end. 
The standalone portfolio results diversify at the total level and are not additive. Regulatory VaR, SVaR, IRC and CRM in the prior table show 
the diversified results at a Barclays Group level.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 181

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk review

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Summary of contents Page
Liquidity risk performance
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its 
contractual or contingent obligations or that 
it does not have the appropriate amount, 
tenor and composition of funding and liquidity 
to support its assets. 

This section provides an overview of Barclays 
Group's liquidity risk.

■■ Liquidity overview and summary of performance 183
■■ Liquidity risk stress testing 183

 – Liquidity risk appetite 184
 – Liquidity regulation 184
 – Liquidity coverage ratio 185

The liquidity pool is held unencumbered and 
is not used to support payment or clearing 
requirements. The liquidity pool is intended 
to offset stress outflows, and comprises the 
following cash and unencumbered assets.

■■ Liquidity pool 185
 – Composition of the liquidity pool 185
 – Liquidity pool by currency 185
 – Management of the liquidity pool 185
 – Contingent liquidity 186

The basis for sound liquidity risk management 
is a solid funding structure that reduces the 
probability of a liquidity stress leading to an 
inability to meet funding obligations as they 
fall due.

■■ Funding structure and funding relationships 186
 – Deposit funding 186
 – Wholesale funding 187

Asset encumbrance arises from collateral pledged 
against secured funding and other collateralised 
obligations. Barclays funds a portion of trading 
portfolio assets and other securities via 
repurchase agreements and other similar 
borrowing, and pledges a portion of loans and 
advances as collateral in securitisation, covered 
bond and other similar secured structures.

■■ Encumbrance 188
 – On-balance sheet 189
 – Off-balance sheet 189
 – Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements 190

In addition to monitoring and managing key 
metrics related to the financial strength of 
Barclays Group, Barclays Group solicits 
independent credit ratings.

These ratings assess the creditworthiness of 
Barclays Group, its subsidiaries and branches 
and are based on reviews of a broad range of 
business and financial attributes including risk 
management processes and procedures, capital 
strength, earnings, funding, asset quality, liquidity, 
accounting and governance.

■■ Credit ratings 192

Provides details on the contractual maturity  
of all financial instruments and other assets 
and liabilities.

■■ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 193

<Page End><Page Start>
182 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Page

Capital risk performance
Capital risk is the risk that the firm has an 
insufficient level or composition of capital to 
support its normal business activities and to meet 
its regulatory capital requirements under normal 
operating environments or stressed conditions 
(both actual and as defined for internal planning 
or regulatory testing purposes). This also includes 
the risk from the firm's pension plans.

This section details Barclays Group's capital 
position providing information on both 
capital resources and capital requirements.  
It also provides details of the leverage ratios 
and exposures.

■■ Capital risk overview and summary of performance 197
■■ Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 198

 – Capital 198
 – Leverage 198

This section outlines Barclays Group's capital 
ratios, capital composition, and provides 
information on significant movements in CET1 
capital during the year.

■■ Analysis of capital resources 198
 – Capital ratios 198
 – Capital resources 199
 – Movement in CET1 capital 199

This section outlines risk weighted assets 
by risk type, business and macro drivers.

■■ Analysis of risk weighted assets 200
 – Risk weighted assets by risk type and business 200
 – Movement analysis of risk weighted assets 200

This section outlines Barclays Group's leverage 
ratios, leverage exposure composition, and 
provides information on significant movements 
in the IFRS and leverage balance sheet.

■■ Analysis of leverage ratios and exposures 201
 – Leverage ratios and exposures 201

Barclays Group discloses the two sources of 
foreign exchange risk that it is exposed to.

■■ Foreign exchange risk 202
 – Transactional foreign currency exposure 202
 – Translational foreign exchange exposure 202
 – Functional currency of operations 202

A review focusing on the UK retirement fund, 
which represents the majority of Barclays Group's 
total retirement benefit obligation.

■■ Pension risk review 203
 – Assets and liabilities 203
 – IAS 19 position 203
 – Risk measurement 203

This section outlines Barclays Group's Minimum 
requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities 
(MREL) position and ratios.

■■ Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities 204

Interest rate risk in the banking book performance
A description of the non-traded market risk 
framework is provided.

Barclays Group discloses a sensitivity analysis 
on pre-tax net interest income for non-trading 
financial assets and liabilities. The analysis is 
carried out by business unit and currency.

Barclays Group discloses the overall impact 
of a parallel shift in interest rates on other 
comprehensive income and cash flow hedges.

Barclays Group measures the volatility of the 
value of the FVOCI instruments in the liquidity 
pool through non-traded market risk VaR.

■■ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and summary 
of performance 205

■■ Net interest income sensitivity 206
 – by business unit 206
 – by currency 206

■■ Analysis of equity sensitivity 206
■■ Volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool 207

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 183

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview
The Barclays Group has a comprehensive 
key risk control framework for managing 
liquidity risk. The Liquidity Framework meets 
the PRA's standards and is designed to 
maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient 
in amount and quality, and a funding profile 
that is appropriate to meet the liquidity risk 
appetite. The Liquidity Framework is delivered 
via a combination of policy formation, review 
and governance, analysis, stress testing, limit 
setting and monitoring.

This section provides an analysis of the 
Barclays Group's: (i) summary of performance, 
(ii) liquidity risk stress testing, iii) liquidity 
pool, (iv) funding structure and funding 
relationships, (v) encumbrance, (vi) credit 
ratings, and (vii) contractual maturity of 
financial assets and liabilities. 

For further detail on liquidity risk governance 
and framework refer to page 176 to 178 of the 
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited).

Summary of performance
The liquidity pool increased to £227bn 
(December 2017: £220bn) driven largely by 
net deposit growth across businesses. The 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) increased to 
169% (December 2017: 154%), equivalent to 
a surplus of £90bn (December 2017: £75bn) 
to 100% regulatory requirement. The Barclays 
Group also continued to maintain surpluses to 
its internal liquidity requirements. The strong 
liquidity position reflects the Barclays Group's 
prudent approach given the continued 
macroeconomic uncertainty. 

During the year, the Barclays Group issued 
£12.2bn of minimum requirement for 
own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) 
instruments in a range of tenor and currencies. 

Barclays Bank PLC continued to issue in the 
shorter-term markets and Barclays Bank UK 
PLC issued in the shorter term and secured 
markets, helping to maintain their stable and 
diversified funding bases. 

The overall funding structure has improved 
further. Barclays Group has continued to 
reduce its reliance on short-term wholesale 
funding, where the proportion maturing in 
less than one year fell to 30% (December 
2017: 31%).

Liquidity risk stress testing 
Under the Liquidity Framework, the Barclays 
Group has established a liquidity risk appetite 
(LRA) together with the appropriate limits for 
the management of the liquidity risk. This is 
the level of liquidity risk the Barclays Group 
chooses to take in pursuit of its business 
objectives and in meeting its regulatory 
obligations. The Barclays Group sets its 
internal liquidity risk appetite (LRA) based 
on internal liquidity risk assessments and, 
external regulatory requirements namely 
the CRD IV Delegated Act Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR). 

Liquidity risk
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that 
it does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity 
to support its assets.

All disclosures in this section (pages 183 to 196) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

Liquidity Coverage Ratio 

169%

<Page End><Page Start>
184 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Liquidity Risk Appetite 
The liquidity risk assessment measures the potential contractual and contingent stress outflows under a range of stress scenarios, which are then 
used to determine the size of the liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet anticipated outflows if a stress occurs. 

As part of the LRA, the Barclays Group runs three short-term liquidity stress scenarios, aligned to the PRA's prescribed stresses:
■■ 90-day market-wide stress event
■■ 30-day Barclays-specific stress event
■■ combined 30-day market-wide and Barclays-specific stress event

Key LRA assumptions 
For the year ended 31 December 2018 

Drivers of Liquidity risk LRA Combined stress – key assumptions

Wholesale Secured and Unsecured  
Funding Risk

■■ Zero rollover of maturing wholesale unsecured funding
■■ Loss of repo capacity on non-extremely liquid repos at contractual maturity date
■■ Roll of repo for extremely liquid repo at wider haircut at contractual maturity date
■■ Withdrawal of contractual buy-back obligations, excess client futures margin, Prime 

Brokerage (PB) client cash and overlifts
■■ Haircuts applied to the market value of marketable assets held in the liquidity buffer

Retail and Corporate Funding Risk ■■ Retail and Corporate deposit outflows as counterparties seek to diversify their 
deposit balances

Intraday Liquidity Risk ■■ Liquidity held against intraday requirements for the settlement of cash and securities 
under a stress

Intra-Group Liquidity Risk ■■ Liquidity support for material subsidiaries. Surplus liquidity held within certain subsidiaries 
is not taken as a benefit to the wider Group

Cross-Currency Liquidity Risk ■■ Currency liquidity cash flows at contractual maturity for physically settled FX forwards 
and cross currency swaps

Off-Balance Sheet Liquidity Risk
 
 
 
 

■■ Drawdown on committed facilities based on facility and counterparty type
■■ Collateral outflows due to a two-notch credit rating downgrade
■■ Increase in the Barclays Group's initial margin requirement across all major exchanges
■■ Variation margin outflows from collateralised risk positions
■■ Outflow of collateral owing but not called
■■ Loss of internal sources of funding within the PB synthetics business

Franchise-Viability Risk ■■ Liquidity held in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, but are necessary 
in order to support the firm's ongoing franchise (e.g. debt buy-backs)

Funding Concentration Risk ■■ Liquidity held against largest wholesale funding counterparty refusing to roll

As at 31 December 2018, the Barclays Group held eligible liquid assets well in excess of 100% of net stress outflows of the 30-day combined 
scenario, which has the highest net outflows of the three short-term liquidity stress scenarios. 

The Barclays Group also runs a long-term liquidity stress test, which measures the anticipated outflows over a 12-month market-wide scenario. 
As at 31 December 2018, the Barclays Group remained compliant to this internal metric.

Liquidity regulation
The Barclays Group monitors its position against the CRD IV Delegated Act Liquidity Coverage Ratio and the Basel III Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR).

The LCR is designed to promote short-term resilience of a bank's liquidity risk profile, by holding sufficient High Quality Liquid Assets to survive 
an acute stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The NSFR has a time horizon of 12 months and has been developed to promote a sustainable maturity 
structure of assets and liabilities. 

In October 2014, the BCBS published a standard defining the minimum requirements for the Net Stable Funding Ration (NSFR). The EU is 
implementing the NSFR regulations as part of the Risk Reduction Measures package, on which political agreement was reached in December 
2018. The regulations are expected to enter into force two years after they are published, which is likely to be around Q2 2021. Barclays continues 
to assess the impact of these measures on its NSFR ratio, which remains above the 100% requirement, based on a conservative interpretation 
of the regulations.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 185

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Liquidity coverage ratio
The external LCR requirement is prescribed by the regulator taking into account the relative stability of different sources of funding and potential 
incremental funding requirements in a stress.  

As at 31 December
2018

£bn
2017
£bn

Eligible liquidity buffer 219 215
Net stress outflows (129) (140)
Surplus 90 75
Liquidity coverage ratio 169% 154%

As part of the LRA, Barclays also establishes the minimum LCR limit. The Barclays Group plans to maintain its surplus to the internal and 
regulatory stress requirements at an efficient level, while considering risks to market funding conditions and its liquidity position. The continuous 
reassessment of these risks may lead to management actions to resize the liquidity pool.

Liquidity pool 
The Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2018 was £227bn (2017: £220bn). During 2018, the month-end liquidity pool ranged from £207bn 
to £243bn (2017: £165bn to £232bn), and the month-end average balance was £225bn (2017: £202bn). The liquidity pool is held unencumbered 
and is not used to support payment or clearing requirements. Such requirements are treated as part of our regular business funding. The liquidity 
pool is intended to offset stress outflows, and comprises the following cash and unencumbered assets. 

Composition of the Group liquidity pool as at 31 December 2018

Liquidity
pool
£bn

Liquidity pool of which CRD IV LCR eligiblec 2017
Liquidity

pool
£bn

Cash
£bn

Level 1
£bn

Level 2A
£bn

Cash and deposits with central banksa 181 176 – – 173

Government bondsb

AAA to AA- 27 – 23 – 31
BBB+ to BBB- 4 – 4 – 2
Other LCR Ineligible Government bonds 1 – – – 1
Total government bonds 32 – 27 – 34

Other 
Government Guaranteed Issuers, PSEs and GSEs 6 – 5 1 6
International Organisations and MDBs 5 – 5 – 4
Covered bonds 3 – 3 – 2
Other – – – – 1
Total other 14 – 13 1 13
Total as at 31 December 2018 227 176 40 1
Total as at 31 December 2017 220 169 43 2

Notes
a Includes cash held at central banks and surplus cash at central banks related to payment schemes. Of which over 99% (2017: over 99%) was placed with the Bank of England, 

US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan and Swiss National Bank.
b Of which over 71% (2017: over 84%) comprised of UK, US, French, German, Swiss and Dutch securities.
c The LCR eligible liquidity pool is adjusted for trapped liquidity and other regulatory deductions. It also incorporates other CRD IV qualifying assets that are not eligible under 

Barclays' internal risk appetite.

The Group liquidity pool is well diversified by major currency and the Barclays Group monitors LRA stress scenarios for major currencies.

Liquidity pool by currency
USD
£bn

EUR
£bn

GBP
£bn

Other 
£bn

Total
£bn

Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2018 57 64 76 30 227
Liquidity pool as at 31 December 2017 70 55 71 24 220

Management of the liquidity pool
The composition of the liquidity pool is subject to limits set by the Board and the independent liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk functions. 
In addition, the investment of the liquidity pool is monitored for concentration risk by issuer, currency and asset type. Given the incremental 
returns generated by these highly liquid assets, the risk and reward profile is continuously managed. 

As at 31 December 2018, 90% (2017: 93%) of the liquidity pool was located in Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC. The residual portion 
of the liquidity pool is held outside of these entities, predominantly in the US subsidiaries, to meet entity-specific stress outflows and regulatory 
requirements. To the extent the use of this portion of the liquidity pool is restricted due to regulatory requirements, it is assumed to be unavailable 
to the rest of the Barclays Group in calculating the LCR.

<Page End><Page Start>
186 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Contingent liquidity
In addition to the Group liquidity pool, the Barclays Group has access to other unencumbered assets which provide a source of contingent liquidity. 
While these are not relied on in the Group's LRA, a portion of these assets may be monetised in a stress to generate liquidity through use as 
collateral for secured funding or through outright sale. 

In a Barclays-specific, market-wide or combined liquidity stress, liquidity available via market sources could be severely disrupted. In circumstances 
where market liquidity is unavailable or available only at heavily discounted prices, the Barclays Group could generate liquidity via central bank 
facilities. The Barclays Group maintains a significant amount of collateral positioned at central banks and available to raise funding.

For more detail on the Barclays Group's other unencumbered assets, see pages 188 to 190.

Funding structure and funding relationships
The basis for sound liquidity risk management is a solid funding structure that reduces the probability of a liquidity stress leading to an inability 
to meet funding obligations as they fall due. The Barclays Group's overall funding strategy is to develop a diversified funding base (geographically, 
by type and by counterparty) and maintain access to a variety of alternative funding sources, to provide protection against unexpected 
fluctuations, while minimising the cost of funding.

Within this, the Barclays Group aims to align the sources and uses of funding. As such, retail and corporate loans and advances are largely funded 
by customer deposits in the relevant entities, with the surplus primarily funding the liquidity pool. Other assets, together with other loans and 
advances, are funded by wholesale debt and equity. The majority of reverse repurchase agreements are matched by repurchase agreements. 
Derivative liabilities and assets are largely matched. A substantial proportion of balance sheet derivative positions qualify for counterparty netting 
and the remaining portions are largely offset once netted against cash collateral received and paid.

These funding relationships are summarised below:

Assets
2018

£bn
2017b
£bn Liabilities

2018
£bn

2017b
£bn

Loans and advances at amortised cost 327 324 Deposits at amortised cost 395 399
Group liquidity pool 227 220 <1 Year wholesale funding 47 45

>1 Year wholesale funding 107 99
Other assetsa 53 47 Equity and other liabilities 102 79
Reverse repurchase agreements, trading 
portfolio assets, cash collateral and 
settlement balances 303 304

Repurchase agreements, trading portfolio 
liabilities, cash collateral and settlement 
balances 262 273

Derivative financial instruments 223 238 Derivative financial instruments 220 238
Total assets 1,133 1,133 Total liabilities 1,133 1,133

Notes
a Other assets include fair value assets that are not part of reverse repurchase agreements or trading portfolio assets, and other asset categories.
b December 2017 comparatives have been updated for balance sheet presentation changes.

Deposit funding (audited)

Funding of loans and advances
As at 31 December 2018

2018 2017
Loans and

 advances at
 amortised

 cost
£bn

Deposits at
 amortised

 cost
£bn

Loan: 
deposit 

ratioa
%

Loan to
 deposit 

ratio
%

Barclays UK 189 197 96% 95%
Barclays International 127 197 65% 68%
Head Office 11 –
Barclays Group 326 395 83% 81%

Note
a The loan: deposit ratio is calculated as loans and advances at amortised cost divided by deposits at amortised cost. Comparatives have been updated based on this approach.
 
As at 31 December 2018, £172bn (2017: £175bn) of total customer deposits were insured through the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and other similar schemes. In addition to these customer deposits £5bn (2017: £4bn) of other liabilities are insured by other governments.

Contractually current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice. In practise, their observed maturity is typically 
longer than their contractual maturity. Similarly, repayment profiles of certain types of assets e.g. mortgages, overdrafts and credit card lending, 
differ from their contractual profiles. The Barclays Group therefore assesses the behavioural maturity of both customer assets and liabilities to 
identify structural balance sheet funding gaps. In doing so, it applies quantitative modelling and qualitative assessments which take into account 
historical experience, current customer composition, and macroeconomic projections. 

The Barclays Group's broad base of customers, numerically and by depositor type, helps protect against unexpected fluctuations in balances 
and hence provide a stable funding base for the Barclays Group's operations and liquidity needs.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 187

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Wholesale funding
Barclays Bank Group and Barclays Bank UK Group maintain access to a variety of sources of wholesale funds in major currencies, including 
those available from term investors across a variety of distribution channels and geographies, short-term funding markets and repo markets. 

Barclays Bank Group has direct access to US, European and Asian capital markets through its global investment banking operations and to 
long-term investors through its clients worldwide. Key sources of wholesale funding include money markets, certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper, medium-term issuances (including structured notes) and securitisations.

Key sources of wholesale funding for Barclays Bank UK Group include money markets, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, covered bonds 
and other securitisations.

Barclays Group expects to continue issuing public wholesale debt from Barclays PLC (the Parent company), in order to maintain compliance 
with indicative MREL requirements and maintain a stable and diverse funding base by type, currency and market.

As at 31 December 2018, Barclays Group's total wholesale funding outstanding (excluding repurchase agreements) was £154.0bn (2017: 
£143.7bn), of which £22.5bn (2017: £20.3bn) was secured funding and £131.5bn (2017: £123.4bn) unsecured funding. Unsecured funding 
includes £47.3bn (2017: £44.8bn) of privately placed senior unsecured notes issued through a variety of distribution channels including 
intermediaries and private banks.

During the year, Barclays Group issued £12.2bn of minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) instruments from Barclays 
PLC (the Parent company) in a range of different currencies and tenors. Barclays Bank PLC continued to issue in the shorter-term markets and 
Barclays Bank UK PLC issued in the shorter term and secured markets, helping to maintain their stable and diversified funding bases. 

As at 31 December 2018, wholesale funding of £46.7bn (2017: £44.9bn) matures in less than one year, of which £19.1bn (2017: £13.8bn) relates 
to term funding. Although not a requirement, the liquidity pool exceeded the wholesale funding maturing in less than one year by £180bn 
(2017: £163bn).

Barclays Bank Group and Barclays Bank UK Group also support various central bank monetary initiatives including participation in the Bank of 
England's Term Funding Scheme. These are reported under ‘repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing' on the balance sheet.

Maturity profile of wholesale fundinga,b
<1 

month
£bn

1-3 
months

£bn

3-6 
months

£bn

6-12
 months

£bn
<1 year

£bn
1-2 years

£bn
2-3 years

£bn
3-4 years

£bn
4-5 years

£bn
>5 years

£bn
Total

£bn
Barclays PLC  
(the Parent company)
Senior unsecured (Public 
benchmark) – – – 1.6 1.6 1.1 4.4 1.3 6.7 16.3 31.4
Senior unsecured (Privately placed) – – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2 0.5 0.9
Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – – – – 6.8 6.8
Barclays Bank PLC  
(including subsidiaries)
Certificates of deposit and 
commercial paper 0.1 7.8 3.5 8.0 19.4 1.2 0.8 0.5 0.1 – 22.0
Asset backed commercial paper 2.0 3.7 1.1 – 6.8 – – – – – 6.8
Senior unsecured  
(Public benchmark) – 0.3 1.1 1.1 2.5 3.0 0.4 – – 1.2 7.1
Senior unsecured  
(Privately placed)c 0.1 3.0 2.3 5.6 11.0 7.7 4.6 2.6 4.0 16.5 46.4
Asset backed securities – – – 1.0 1.0 1.2 0.2 0.2 0.6 2.6 5.8
Subordinated liabilities 0.2 0.1 – 0.1 0.4 0.9 5.2 3.4 – 4.1 14.0
Other 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 – – 0.3 1.1 1.6
Barclays Bank UK PLC  
(including subsidiaries)
Certificates of deposit and 
commercial paper – 1.0 0.2 0.1 1.3 – – – – – 1.3
Covered bonds – – – 1.8 1.8 1.0 1.0 2.4 1.3 1.1 8.6
Asset backed securities – – – 0.8 0.8 0.5 – – – – 1.3
Total as at 31 December 2018 2.5 15.9 8.2 20.1 46.7 16.7 16.8 10.4 13.2 50.2 154.0
Of which secured 2.0 3.7 1.1 3.6 10.4 2.7 1.2 2.6 1.9 3.7 22.5
Of which unsecured 0.5 12.2 7.1 16.5 36.3 14.0 15.6 7.8 11.3 46.5 131.5
Total as at 31 December 2017 7.2 14.9 12.5 10.3 44.9 18.7 12.0 13.6 10.8 43.7 143.7
Of which secured 1.9 5.1 1.0 0.2 8.2 3.5 2.0 1.0 2.5 3.1 20.3
Of which unsecured 5.3 9.8 11.5 10.1 36.7 15.2 10.0 12.6 8.3 40.6 123.4

Notes
a The composition of wholesale funding principally comprises of debt securities and subordinated liabilities.
b Term funding comprises public benchmark and privately placed senior unsecured notes, covered bonds, asset backed securities (ABS) and subordinated debt where the original 

maturity of the instrument was more than one year.
c Includes structured notes of £35.7bn, £6.2bn of which matures within one year.

<Page End><Page Start>
188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Currency composition of wholesale debt
As at 31 December 2018, the proportion of wholesale funding by major currencies was as follows:

Currency composition of wholesale funding
USD

%
EUR

%
GBP

%
Other

%
Certificates of deposit and commercial paper 48 49 3 –
Asset backed commercial paper 86 9 5 –
Senior unsecured (Public benchmark) 61 19 12 8
Senior unsecured (Privately placed) 54 24 9 13
Covered bonds/Asset backed securities 33 35 32 –
Subordinated liabilities 46 24 28 2
Total as at 31 December 2018 53 27 13 7
Total as at 31 December 2017 50 28 10 12

To manage cross currency refinancing risk, the Barclays Group manages to foreign exchange cash flow limits, which limit risk at specific maturities. 

Encumbrance 
Asset encumbrance arises from collateral pledged against secured funding and other collateralised obligations. Barclays funds a portion of 
trading portfolio assets and other securities via repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing, and pledges a portion of loans and advances 
as collateral in securitisation, covered bond and other similar secured structures. Barclays monitors the mix of secured and unsecured funding 
sources and seeks to efficiently utilise available collateral to raise secured funding and meet other collateral requirements.

Encumbered assets have been defined consistently with the Barclays Group's reporting requirements under Article 100 of the CRR. Securities 
and commodities assets are considered encumbered when they have been pledged or used to secure, collateralise or credit enhance a transaction 
which impacts their transferability and free use. This includes external repurchase or other similar agreements with market counterparties.

Excluding assets positioned at central banks, as at 31 December 2018, £165.9bn (2017: £193.2bn) of the Barclays Group's assets were 
encumbered, primarily due to firm financing of trading portfolio assets, posting of cash collateral, funding secured against loans and advances, 
and other assets at fair value. 

Assets may also be encumbered under secured funding arrangements with central banks. In advance of such encumbrance, assets are often 
positioned with central banks to facilitate efficient future draw down. £78.6bn (2017: £70.0bn) of on-balance sheet assets were positioned 
at the central banks, consisting of encumbered assets and collateral available for use in secured financing transactions. 

£350.6bn (2017: £341.9bn) of on- and off-balance sheet assets not positioned at the central banks were identified as readily available assets 
for use in secured financing transactions. Additionally, they include cash and securities held in the Barclays Group's liquidity pool as well as 
unencumbered assets which provide a source of contingent liquidity. While these additional assets are not relied upon in the Barclays Group's 
liquidity pool, a portion of these assets may be monetised to generate liquidity through use as collateral for secured funding or through outright 
sale. Loans and advances to customers are only classified as readily available if they are already in a form, such that, they can be used to raise 
funding without further management actions. This includes excess collateral already in secured funding vehicles.

£216.3bn (2017: £198.0bn) of assets not positioned at the central banks were identified as available as collateral. These assets are not subject to 
any restrictions on their ability to secure funding, to be offered as collateral, or to be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are 
not immediately available in the normal course of business in their current form. They primarily consist of loans and advances which would be 
suitable for use in secured funding structures but are conservatively classified as not readily available because they are not in a transferable form.

Not available as collateral consists of assets that cannot be pledged or used as security for funding due to restrictions that prevent their pledge 
or use as security for funding in the normal course of business.

Derivatives and reverse repos are shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged. However, these assets can give rise to the 
receipt of non-cash assets which are held off-balance sheet, and can be used to raise secured funding or meet additional funding requirements.

In addition, £529.0bn (2017: £547.6bn) of the total £598.3bn (2017: £608.4bn) securities accepted as collateral, and held off-balance sheet, 
were on-pledged, the significant majority of which related to matched-book activity where reverse repurchase agreements are matched by 
repurchase agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder relates primarily to reverse repurchase agreements used to settle 
trading portfolio liabilities as well as collateral posted against derivatives margin requirements.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 189

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2018

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central bank 
 and unencumbered assets)

As a 
result of
 covered

 bonds
£bn

As a 
result of
 securi-

tisations
£bn

Other
£bn

Total
£bn

Assets 
positioned

 at the
 central
 banksa

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central bank

Total
£bn

Readily
 available

 assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not
 available

 as 
collateral

£bn

 Derivatives
 and

 Reverse
 repos

£bn
Cash and balances at central banks 177.1 – – – – – 177.1 – – – 177.1
Cash collateral 59.1 – – 55.5 55.5 – 3.6 – – – 3.6
Settlement balances 18.1 – – – – – – – 18.1 – 18.1
Loans and advances at  
amortised cost 326.4 11.6 9.7 8.2 29.5 78.1 19.2 197.1 2.5 – 296.9
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and other similar secured lending 2.3 – – – – – – – – 2.3 2.3
Trading portfolio assets 104.2 – – 63.1 63.1 – 41.1 – – – 41.1
Financial assets at fair value 
through the income statement 149.6 – – 7.4 7.4 0.5 4.2 18.5 – 119.0 142.2
Derivative financial instruments 222.5 – – – – – – – – 222.5 222.5
Financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income 52.8 – – 10.4 10.4 – 41.7 0.7 – – 42.4
Other assets 21.2 – – – – – – – 21.2 – 21.2
Total on-balance sheet 1,133.3 11.6 9.7 144.6 165.9 78.6 286.9 216.3 41.8 343.8 967.4

Off-balance sheet

Collateral 
received

£bn

Collateral
 received 
of which

 on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available
 as

 collateral
£bn

Not
 available 

as 
collateral

£bn
Fair value of securities accepted as 
collateral 598.3 529.0 63.7 – 5.7
Total unencumbered collateral – – 350.6 216.3 47.5

Note
a Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in Note 38  

to the financial statements on page 342.
 

<Page End><Page Start>
190 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Asset encumbrance

On-balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2017

Assets
£bn

Assets encumbered as a result of transactions 
with counterparties other than central banks

Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the central bank  
and unencumbered assets)

As a 
result of
 covered

 bonds
£bn

As a 
result of
 securi-

tisations
£bn

Other
£bn

Total
£bn

Assets 
positioned

 at the
 central
 banksa

£bn

Assets not positioned at the central bank

Total
£bn

Readily
 available

 assets
£bn

Available 
as 

collateral
£bn

Not
 available

 as 
collateral

£bn

Derivatives
 and

 Reverse
 repos

£bn

Cash and balances at central banks 171.1  –  –  –  – – 171.1  –  –  – 171.1
Cash collateral 58.6  –  – 56.4 56.4 – 2.2  – –  – 2.2
Settlement balances 18.6 – – –  – – – – 18.6 – 18.6
Loans and advances at  
amortised cost 324.0 11.2 18.4 13.0 42.6 70.0 24.1 186.4 0.9  – 281.4
Reverse repurchase agreements 12.5  –  –  –  – –  –  –  – 12.5 12.5
Trading portfolio assets 113.8  –  – 73.9 73.9 – 39.9  –  –  – 39.9
Financial assets at fair value 116.3  –  – 4.8 4.8 – 1.5 10.0  – 100.0 111.5
Derivative financial instruments 237.7  –  –  –  – –  –  –  – 237.7 237.7
Financial Investments 58.9  –  – 15.5 15.5 – 43.0 0.4  –  – 43.4
Other assets 20.5  –  –  –  – –  –  – 20.5  – 20.5
Assets included in disposal groups 
classified as held for sale 1.2  –  –  –  – – – 1.2  –  – 1.2
Total on-balance sheet 1,133.2 11.2 18.4 163.6 193.2 70.0 281.8 198.0 40.0 350.2 940.0

Off-balance sheet

Collateral 
received

£bn

Collateral
 received 
of which

 on-
pledged

£bn

Readily
 available 

assets
£bn

Available
 as

 collateral
£bn

Not
 available 

as 
collateral

£bn

Fair value of securities accepted as 
collateral 608.4 547.6 60.1 – 0.7
Total unencumbered collateral – – 341.9 198.0 40.7

Note
a Includes both encumbered and unencumbered assets. Assets within this category that have been encumbered are disclosed as assets pledged in Note 38  

to the financial statements on page 342.

Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements
Barclays enters into repurchase and other similar secured borrowing agreements to finance its trading portfolio assets. The majority of reverse 
repurchase agreements are matched by offsetting repurchase agreements entered into to facilitate client activity. The remainder are used to settle 
trading portfolio liabilities.

Due to the high quality of collateral provided against secured financing transactions, the liquidity risk associated with this activity is significantly 
lower than unsecured financing transactions. Nonetheless, Barclays manages to gross and net secured mismatch limits to limit refinancing 
risk under a severe stress scenario and a portion of the Barclays Group's liquidity pool is held against stress outflows on these positions. 
The Barclays Group secured mismatch limits are calibrated based on market capacity, liquidity characteristics of the collateral and risk appetite 
of the Barclays Group.

The cash value of repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions will typically differ from the market value of the collateral against which these 
transactions are secured by an amount referred to as a haircut (or overcollateralisation). Typical haircut levels vary depending on the quality of the 
collateral that underlies these transactions. For transactions secured against extremely liquid fixed income collateral, lenders demand relatively 
small haircuts (typically ranging from 0-2%). For transactions secured against less liquid collateral, haircuts vary by asset class (typically ranging 
from 5-10% for corporate bonds and other less liquid collateral).

As at 31 December 2018, the significant majority of repurchase activity related to matched-book activity. The Barclays Group may face refinancing 
risk on the net maturity mismatch for matched-book activity.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 191

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Net matched-book activitya,b

Net match-book repurchase agreements/(Reverse repurchase agreements)

Less than 
one month

£bn

One month 
to three
 months

£bn

Over 
three 

months
£bn

As at 31 December 2018
Extremely liquid fixed incomec 32.4 (19.6) (11.3)
Liquid fixed income (0.4) 0.5 0.7
Equities (10.9) 7.7 6.4
Less liquid (1.4) 1.5 1.9
Total 19.7 (9.9) (2.3)
As at 31 December 2017
Extremely liquid fixed incomec 36.4 (18.1) (16.1)
Liquid fixed income 0.9 (1.5) 1.4
Equities (9.7) 5.6 8.8
Less liquid (1.7) 0.7 2.2
Total 25.9 (13.3) (3.7)

The residual repurchase agreement activity is the firm-financing component and reflects Barclays funding of a portion of its trading portfolio 
assets. The primary risk related to firm-financing activity is the inability to roll over transactions as they mature.

Firm financing repurchase agreementsa,b,d

Less than 
one month

£bn

One month 
to three
 months

£bn

Over 
three 

months
£bn

Total
£bn

As at 31 December 2018
Extremely liquid fixed incomec 43.6 5.1 1.6 50.3
Liquid fixed income 3.2 3.3 5.8 12.3
Equities 15.9 15.1 9.0 40.0
Less liquid 7.8 1.6 13.8 23.2
Total 70.5 25.1 30.2 125.8
As at 31 December 2017
Extremely liquid fixed incomec 37.2 10.3 1.4 48.9
Liquid fixed income 4.1 1.5 2.5 8.1
Equities 17.4 21.4 15.7 54.5
Less liquid 2.1 1.9 12.6 16.6
Total 60.8 35.1 32.2 128.1

Notes
a Includes collateral swaps, financing positions for prime brokerage clients which reported as loans and advances or deposits on the balance sheet. 
b Values are reported on a cash value basis.
c Extremely liquid fixed income is defined as very highly rated sovereigns and agencies, typically rated AA+ or better. It excludes liquid fixed income, equities and other 

less liquid collateral.
d Includes participation in central bank monetary initiatives e.g. Bank of England's Term Funding Scheme.

<Page End><Page Start>
192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Credit ratings
In addition to monitoring and managing key metrics related to the financial strength of the Barclays Group, Barclays also solicits independent 
credit ratings from Standard & Poor's Global (S&P), Moody's, Fitch and Rating and Investment Information (R&I). These ratings assess the 
creditworthiness of the Barclays Group, its subsidiaries and branches and are based on reviews of a broad range of business and financial 
attributes including capital strength, profitability, funding, liquidity, asset quality, strategy and governance.

Credit ratings
As at 31 December 2018 Standard & Poor's Moody's Fitch
Barclays Bank PLC
Long term A A2 A+
Short term A-1 P-1 F1
Outlook Stable Stable Stable
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Long term A A1 A+
Short term A-1 P-1 F1
Outlook Stable Stable Stable
Barclays PLC
Long term BBB Baa3 A
Short term A-2 P-3 F1
Outlook Stable Stable Stable

All credit rating agencies took rating actions during the year to convert their respective initial ratings of Barclays Bank UK PLC to final ratings 
in April 2018, following the setting up of the ring-fenced bank.

In March 2018, S&P finalised their rating of Barclays Bank UK PLC, aligning it to Barclays Bank PLC's rating of A. Both entities are on stable outlooks. 
Barclays PLC continues to be rated BBB with a stable outlook.

In April 2018, Moody's assigned a rating to Barclays Bank UK PLC of A1, whilst Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC's ratings were downgraded by 
one notch to A2 and Baa3 respectively due to their assessment of the entities' profitability and, for Barclays Bank PLC, the impact of ring-fencing. 
All entities carry stable outlooks. 

Fitch assigned a rating to Barclays Bank UK PLC of A, aligning it to Barclays Bank PLC's rating in April 2018. In December 2018, both entities were 
upgraded by one notch to A+ due to the sufficient amount of junior debt both entities hold, referred to as qualifying junior debt (QJD). Barclays PLC 
continues to be rated A on stable outlook.

Barclays also solicits issuer ratings from R&I and the ratings of A- for Barclays PLC and A for Barclays Bank PLC were affirmed in July 2018 with 
stable outlooks.

A credit rating downgrade could result in outflows to meet collateral requirements on existing contracts. Outflows related to credit rating 
downgrades are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the liquidity pool is held against this risk. Credit ratings downgrades could 
also result in reduced funding capacity and increased funding costs. 

The contractual collateral requirement following one- and two-notch long-term and associated short-term downgrades across all credit rating 
agencies, would result in outflows of £5bn and £6bn respectively, and are fully reserved for in the liquidity pool. These numbers do not assume 
any management or restructuring actions that could be taken to reduce posting requirements. These outflows do not include the potential 
liquidity impact from loss of unsecured funding, such as from money market funds, or loss of secured funding capacity. However, unsecured 
and secured funding stresses are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the liquidity pool is held against these risks.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 193

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities. Derivatives (other than 
those designated in a hedging relationship) and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the ‘on demand' column at their fair value. 
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity 
and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value. Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according 
to their contractual maturity.

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)

As at
31 December 2018

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
 months but

not more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months but

not more
than nine

 months
£m

Over nine
months but

not more
than one

 year
£m

Over one
year but 

not more
 than two

 years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
Assets
Cash and balances 
at central banks 175,534 1,353 118 – 64 – – – – – 177,069
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 2,389 74,786 19 – 22 2 – 4 – – 77,222
Loans and advances 
at amortised cost 12,506 11,171 7,938 5,416 7,072 26,336 25,559 39,604 48,606 142,198 326,406
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 31 1,245 – – – 586 446 – – – 2,308
Trading portfolio assets 104,187 – – – – – – – – – 104,187
Financial assets at fair 
value through the 
income statement 13,606 112,297 7,174 3,124 2,312 4,677 165 311 829 5,153 149,648
Derivative financial 
instruments 222,384 – 6 1 4 14 11 11 86 21 222,538
Financial investments – – – – – – – – – – –
Financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive income 11 3,120 2,784 1,696 2,719 6,080 2,765 7,818 18,659 7,164 52,816
Other financial assets 761 182 56 – 7 – – – – – 1,006
Total financial assets 531,409 204,154 18,095 10,237 12,200 37,695 28,946 47,748 68,180 154,536 1,113,200
Other assetsa 20,083
Total assets 1,133,283
Liabilities
Deposits at 
amortised cost 342,967 30,029 7,282 3,672 3,237 3,983 2,053 520 349 746 394,838
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 3,542 63,973 5 2 – – – – – – 67,522
Repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured 
borrowing 1,331 5,542 – – – 3 10,017 1,201 484 – 18,578
Debt securities in issue 26 14,779 5,937 5,159 7,686 6,984 6,248 12,988 15,812 6,667 82,286
Subordinated liabilities – 306 – 78 45 860 5,156 3,387 6,968 3,759 20,559
Trading portfolio 
liabilities 37,882 – – – – – – – – – 37,882
Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value 14,280 143,635 6,809 9,051 3,577 10,383 5,689 7,116 4,415 11,879 216,834
Derivative financial 
instruments 219,578 9 – – – 3 3 3 3 44 219,643
Other financial 
liabilities 277 2,984 – – – 554 – – – – 3,815
Total financial 
liabilities 619,883 261,257 20,033 17,962 14,545 22,770 29,166 25,215 28,031 23,095 1,061,957
Other liabilities 7,547
Total liabilities 1,069,504
Cumulative 
liquidity gap (88,474) (145,577) (147,515) (155,240) (157,585) (142,660) (142,880) (120,347) (80,198) 51,243 63,779

<Page End><Page Start>
194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)

As at
31 December 2017

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months but

not more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months but

not more
than nine

 months
£m

Over nine
months but

not more
than one

 year
£m

Over one
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two
years but
not more

than three
years

£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m

Assets
Cash and balances 
at central banks 170,236 846 – – – – – – – – 171,082
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 1,794 75,323 32 2 14 3 – – – – 77,168
Loans and advances 
at amortised cost 13,667 25,720 9,735 5,594 7,733 36,213 26,244 39,446 48,382 111,314 324,048
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending 7,522 4,446 578 – – – – – – – 12,546
Trading portfolio assets 113,760 – – – – – – – – – 113,760
Financial assets at fair 
value through the 
income statement 14,800 77,288 8,828 4,570 1,252 2,095 160 196 557 6,535 116,281
Derivative financial 
instruments 237,504 41 – – – 71 22 15 1 15 237,669
Financial investments 30 2,378 2,717 97 504 5,675 3,928 16,162 17,059 10,365 58,915
Financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive income – – – – – – – – – – –
Other financial assets 2,153 759 – – – 110 – – – – 3,022
Total financial assets 561,466 186,801 21,890 10,263 9,503 44,167 30,354 55,819 65,999 128,229 1,114,491
Other assetsa 18,757
Total assets 1,133,248
Liabilities
Deposits at 
amortised cost 337,881 39,586 8,083 3,820 3,823 2,754 634 1,198 266 656 398,701
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 2,047 66,052 16 4 19 4 1 – – – 68,143
Repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured 
borrowing 3,550 17,841 4,516 2,136 1,396 310 93 10,006 490 – 40,338
Debt securities in issue 907 17,120 8,395 5,107 1,562 8,136 3,883 12,819 10,983 4,402 73,314
Subordinated liabilities – 2,402 791 7 23 57 1,959 8,751 5,466 4,370 23,826
Trading portfolio 
liabilities 37,351 – – – – – – – – – 37,351
Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value 13,298 102,860 10,570 5,918 3,139 10,515 7,281 5,879 4,923 9,335 173,718
Derivative financial 
instruments 237,235 10 3 – – 10 5 4 41 1,037 238,345
Other financial 
liabilities 446 3,793 – – – 781 – – – – 5,020
Total financial 
liabilities 632,715 249,664 32,374 16,992 9,962 22,567 13,856 38,657 22,169 19,800 1,058,756
Other liabilities 8,476
Total liabilities 1,067,232
Cumulative 
liquidity gap (71,249) (134,112) (144,596) (151,325) (151,784) (130,184) (113,686) (96,524) (52,694) 55,735 66,016

Expected maturity dates may differ from the contract dates, to account for:
■■ trading portfolio assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of Barclays Group's 

trading strategies
■■ corporate and retail deposits, which are included within deposits at amortised cost, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual 

basis. In practice, these instruments form a stable base for Barclays Group's operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of 
customers, both numerically and by depositor type

■■ loans to corporate and retail customers, which are included within loans and advances at amortised cost and financial assets at fair value, 
may be repaid earlier in line with terms and conditions of the contract

■■ debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities, and financial liabilities designated at fair value, may include early redemption features.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 195

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis 
The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Barclays Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance 
sheet date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities (i.e. nominal values).

The balances in the below table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, 
on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.

Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities – undiscounted (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
than three

months
£m

Over three
months but

not more
than six
months

£m

Over six
months but

not more
than one year

£m

Over one
year but 

not more 
than three 

years
£m

Over three
years but
not more
than five

years
£m

Over five
years but
not more
than ten

years
£m

Over ten
years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Deposits at amortised cost 342,967 30,047 7,295 6,924 6,069 546 412 816 395,076
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 3,542 63,985 5 2 – – – – 67,534
Repurchase agreements and  
other similar secured borrowing 1,331 5,542 – – 10,238 1,243 486 – 18,840
Debt securities in issue 26 14,810 5,976 12,914 13,849 13,351 17,639 10,254 88,819
Subordinated liabilities – 306 – 123 6,147 3,568 7,917 4,413 22,474
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,882 – – – – – – – 37,882
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value 14,280 143,766 6,948 12,732 16,546 7,679 5,008 17,621 224,580
Derivative financial instruments 219,578 12 – – 6 3 4 59 219,662
Other financial liabilities 277 2,984 – – 554 – – – 3,815
Total financial liabilities 619,883 261,452 20,224 32,695 53,409 26,390 31,466 33,163 1,078,682

As at 31 December 2017
Deposits at amortised cost 337,881 39,602 8,087 7,650 3,405 1,200 267 725 398,817
Cash collateral and 
settlement balances 2,047 66,059 16 24 5 – – – 68,151
Repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured borrowing 3,550 17,847 4,526 3,557 410 10,259 490 – 40,639
Debt securities in issue 907 17,614 8,565 7,025 13,786 13,928 12,687 6,734 81,246
Subordinated liabilities – 2,822 1,816 685 5,501 10,232 6,243 6,231 33,530
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,351 – – – – – – – 37,351
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value 13,298 102,983 10,609 9,118 18,142 6,177 5,490 12,834 178,651
Derivative financial instruments 237,235 9 3 – 15 5 48 1,755 239,070
Other financial liabilities 446 3,793 – – 781 – – – 5,020
Total financial liabilities 632,715 250,729 33,622 28,059 42,045 41,801 25,225 28,279 1,082,475

<Page End><Page Start>
196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Maturity of off-balance sheet commitments received and given
The table below presents the maturity split of the Barclays Group's off-balance sheet commitments received and given at the balance sheet date. 
The amounts disclosed in the table are the undiscounted cash flows (i.e. nominal values) on the basis of earliest opportunity at which they 
are available.

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
 than three

 months
£m

Over three
 months but
 not more

 than six
 months

£m

Over six
 months but
 not more
 than nine

 months
£m

Over nine
 months but
 not more
than one

 year
£m

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than two

 years
£m

Over two
 years but 
not more 

than three
 years

£m

Over three 
years but 
not more 
than five 

years
£m

Over five
 years but
 not more 

than ten
 years

£m

Over ten
 years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Guarantees, letters of credit 
and credit insurance 6,288 110 20 13 16 65 10 33 10 5 6,570
Other commitments 
received 93 42 – – – – – – – – 135
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments received 6,381 152 20 13 16 65 10 33 10 5 6,705

As at 31 December 2017
Guarantees, letters of credit 
and credit insurance 6,373 5 2 3 1 8 7 5 3 4 6,411
Other commitments 
received – 29 – – – – – – – – 29
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments received 6,373 34 2 3 1 8 7 5 3 4 6,440

Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given (audited)

On
demand

£m

Not more
 than three

 months
£m

Over three
 months but
 not more

 than six
 months

£m

Over six
 months but
 not more
 than nine

 months
£m

Over nine
 months but
 not more
than one

 year
£m

Over one 
year but 

not more 
than two 

years
£m

Over two
 years but 
not more 

than three
 years

£m

Over three 
years but 
not more 
than five 

years
£m

Over five
 years but
 not more 

than ten
 years

£m

Over ten
 years

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Contingent liabilities 16,344 1,102 553 145 170 415 435 641 319 179 20,303
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 70 1,263 325 55 14 11 3 – – – 1,741
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 317,257 1,734 1,311 397 667 311 257 424 19 105 322,482
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments given 333,671 4,099 2,189 597 851 737 695 1,065 338 284 344,526

As at 31 December 2017
Contingent liabilities 16,047 1,085 560 92 242 346 80 59 245 256 19,012
Documentary credits and 
other short-term trade 
related transactions 34 593 147 26 6 5 1 – – – 812
Standby facilities, credit 
lines and other 
commitments 311,481 1,144 883 77 778 44 47 259 2 46 314,761
Total off-balance sheet 
commitments given 327,562 2,822 1,590 195 1,026 395 128 318 247 302 334,585

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 197

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview 
The CET1 ratio, among other metrics, 
is a measure of the capital strength and 
resilience of Barclays. Maintenance of our 
capital resources is vital in order to meet 
the minimum capital requirements, and 
to cover the Barclays Group's current and 
forecast business needs, and associated 
risks in order to provide a viable and 
sustainable business offering. 

This section provides an overview of the 
Barclays Group's: (i) regulatory minimum 
capital and leverage requirements; (ii) capital 
resources; (iii) risk weighted assets (RWAs); 
and (iv) leverage ratios and exposures.

More details on monitoring and managing 
capital risk may be found in the risk 
management sections on pages 175 to 181 
of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018.

Summary of performance 
in the period
Barclays continues to be in excess of 
minimum transitional and fully loaded capital 
requirements, and regulatory minimum 
leverage requirements.

The CET1 ratio ended the year at 13.2% 
(December 2017: 13.3%), at our end state 
target of c.13%.

CET1 capital decreased £0.5bn to £41.1bn 
as underlying profit generation of £4.2bn, 
was more than offset by £2.1bn of litigation 
and conduct charges as the Barclays Group 
resolved legacy matters, £1.7bn for ordinary 
dividends and Additional Tier 1 coupons paid 
and foreseen, £1.0bn from the redemption of 
capital instruments and £0.5bn of pensions 
contributions.

RWAs remained broadly stable at £311.9bn 
(December 2017: £313.0bn). The Barclays 
Group continued to actively manage capital 
allocation to businesses during the year, 
including the redeployment of RWAs within 
CIB to higher returning businesses and clients, 
while targeting growth in selected consumer 
businesses in Barclays UK and Consumer, 
Cards and Payments. Within Barclays UK, the 
increase in RWAs included the impact of a 
change in the regulatory methodology for the 
Education, Social Housing and Local Authority 
(ESHLA) portfolio which was partly offset by a 
reduction in Head Office due to the regulatory 
deconsolidation of Barclays Africa Group 
Limited (BAGL).

The UK leverage ratio remained flat at 5.1% 
(December 2017: 5.1%). The leverage 
exposure increased marginally to £999bn 
(December 2017: £985bn) including securities 
financing transactions (SFTs), due to the 
CIB utilising leverage balance sheet more 
efficiently within high returning financing 
businesses. The average UK leverage ratio 
decreased to 4.5% (December 2017: 4.9%).

Capital risk
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal 
business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating 
environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning or 
regulatory testing purposes). This includes the risk from the firm's pension plans.

All disclosures in this section (pages 197 to 204) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 

13.2%
UK leverage ratio 

5.1%
Average UK leverage ratio 

4.5%

<Page End><Page Start>
198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Regulatory minimum capital requirements
Barclays' fully loaded CET1 regulatory requirement is 11.7% comprising a 4.5% Pillar 1 minimum, a 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB), 
a 1.5% Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) buffer, a 2.7% Pillar 2A requirement applicable from 1 January 2019, and a 0.5% 
Countercyclical Capital Buffer (CCyB).

The CCB and the G-SII buffer, determined by the PRA in line with guidance from the Financial Stability Board (FSB), are subject to phased 
implementation at 25% per annum from 2016 with full effect from 2019. The CCB has been set at 2.5% with 1.9% applicable for 2018. The G-SII 
buffer for 2018 has been set at 1.5% with 1.1% applicable for 2018. The FSB confirmed that the G-SII buffer will remain at 1.5% applicable for 2019 
and 2020.

The Barclays CCyB is based on the buffer rate applicable for each jurisdiction in which Barclays has exposures. On 28 November 2018, the Financial 
Policy Committee (FPC) increased the CCyB rate for UK exposures from 0.5% to 1%. The buffer rates set by other national authorities for our 
non-UK exposures are not currently material. Overall, this results in a 0.5% CCyB for Barclays for Q418.

Barclays' Pillar 2A requirement as per the PRA's Individual Capital Requirement for 2018 is 4.3% of which at least 56.25% needs to be met in CET1 
form, equating to approximately 2.4% of RWAs. Certain elements of the Pillar 2A requirement are a fixed quantum whilst others are a proportion 
of RWAs and are based on a point in time assessment. The Pillar 2A requirement is subject to at least annual review.

The CET1 transitional minimum capital requirement for December 2018 was 10.4% comprising a 4.5% Pillar 1 minimum, a 1.9% CCB, a 1.1% 
G-SII buffer, a 0.5% CCyB and a 2.4% Pillar 2A requirement. 

Regulatory minimum leverage requirements
Barclays is subject to a leverage ratio requirement that is implemented on a phased basis, with a transitional requirement of 3.8% as at 
31 December 2018; this comprised the 3.25% minimum requirement, a transitional G-SII additional leverage ratio buffer (G-SII ALRB) of 0.39% 
and a countercyclical leverage ratio buffer (CCLB) of 0.2%. Although the leverage ratio is expressed in terms of T1 capital, 75% of the minimum 
requirement, equating to 2.4375%, needs to be met with CET1 capital. In addition, the G-SII ALRB and CCLB must be covered solely with CET1 
capital. The CET1 capital held against the 0.39% transitional G-SII ALRB was £4.4bn and the 0.2% CCLB was £2.2bn. The fully loaded UK leverage 
requirement is expected to be 4.0%.

Capital resources
The CRR and Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) implemented Basel III within the EU (collectively known as CRD IV) on 1 January 2014. The rules 
are supplemented by Regulatory Technical Standards and the PRA's rulebook, including the implementation of transitional rules. However, rules and 
guidance are still subject to change as certain aspects of CRD IV are dependent on final technical standards and clarifications to be issued by the 
EBA and adopted by the European Commission and the PRA. 

Capital ratiosa,b,c

As at 31 December 2018 2017
CET1 13.2% 13.3%
Tier 1 (T1) 17.0% 17.2%
Total regulatory capital 20.7% 21.5%

Notes
a CET1, T1 and T2 capital, and RWAs are calculated applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR. This includes IFRS 9 transitional arrangements and the grandfathering 

of CRR non-compliant capital instruments.
b The fully loaded CET1 ratio, as is relevant for assessing against the conversion trigger in Barclays PLC additional tier 1 (AT1) securities, was 12.8%, with £39.8bn of CET1 capital 

and £311.8bn of RWAs calculated without applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR.
c The Barclays PLC CET1 ratio, as is relevant for assessing against the conversion trigger in Barclays Bank PLC T2 Contingent Capital Notes, was 13.2%. For this calculation CET1 

capital and RWAs are calculated applying the transitional arrangements under the CRR, including the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements. The benefit of the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) October 2012 interpretation of the transitional provisions, relating to the implementation of CRD IV, expired in December 2017.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 199

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Capital resources (audited)

As at 31 December
2018

£bn
2017
£bn

Total equity excluding non-controlling interests per the balance sheet 62.6 63.9
Less: other equity instruments (recognised as AT1 capital) (9.6) (8.9)
Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends (0.7) (0.4)

Other regulatory adjustments and deductions
Additional value adjustments (PVA) (1.7) (1.4)
Goodwill and intangible assets (8.0) (7.9)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding temporary differences (0.5) (0.6)
Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow hedges (0.7) (1.2)
Excess of expected losses over impairment – (1.2)
Gains or losses on liabilities at fair value resulting from own credit (0.1) 0.1
Defined benefit pension fund assets (1.3) (0.7)
Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (0.1) (0.1)
Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional arrangements 1.3 –
CET1 capital 41.1 41.6

AT1 capital
Capital instruments and related share premium accounts 9.6 8.9
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 2.4 3.5
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (0.1) (0.1)
AT1 capital 11.9 12.3

T1 capital 53.0 53.9

T2 capital
Capital instruments and related share premium accounts 6.6 6.5
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiaries 5.3 7.0
Other regulatory adjustments and deductions (0.3) (0.3)
Total regulatory capital 64.6 67.2

Movement in CET1 capital
2018

£bn
Opening balance as at 1 January 41.6

Effects of changes in accounting policies (2.2)

Profit/Loss for the period attributable to equity holders 2.1
Own credit relating to derivative liabilities (0.1)
Dividends paid and foreseen (1.7)
Increase in retained regulatory capital generated from earnings 0.4

Net impact of share schemes 0.1
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (0.5)
Currency translation reserve 0.8
Other reserves (1.0)
Decrease in other qualifying reserves (0.6)

Pension remeasurements within reserves 0.3
Defined benefit pension fund asset deduction (0.6)
Net impact of pensions (0.3)

Additional value adjustments (PVA) (0.4)
Goodwill and intangible assets (0.1)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 0.1
Excess of expected loss over impairment 1.2
Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional arrangements 1.3
Increase in regulatory capital due to adjustments and deductions 2.2
Closing balance as at 31 December 41.1

<Page End><Page Start>
200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

CET1 capital decreased £0.5bn to £41.1bn (December 2017: £41.6bn).

£4.2bn of organic capital generated from profits was more than offset by £2.1bn of litigation and conduct charges, as the Barclays Group resolved 
legacy matters, as well as the following significant items:
■■ £1.7bn of dividends paid and foreseen for ordinary dividends and AT1 coupons
■■ a £1bn decrease in other qualifying reserves following the redemption of the legacy $2.65bn 8.125% Series Non-Cumulative Callable Dollar 

Preference Shares and $2bn 8.25% AT1 securities due to these instruments being held on the balance sheet at historical FX rates
■■ a £0.3bn decrease as a result of movements relating to pensions, largely due to deficit contribution payments of £0.25bn in April 2018 and 

£0.25bn in September 2018.

The implementation of IFRS 9 resulted in a net increase in CET1 capital as the initial decrease in shareholders' equity of £2.2bn on implementation 
was more than offset by the transitional relief of £1.3bn and the removal of £1.2bn of regulatory deduction for the excess of expected loss 
over impairment. 

Risk weighted assets
Risk weighted assets (RWAs) by risk type and business

As at 31 December 2018

Credit risk Counterparty credit risk Market risk
Operational

risk Total RWAs

Std
£bn

IRB
£bn

Std
£bn

IRB
£bn

Settlement 
Risk
£bn

CVA
£bn

Std
£bn

IMA
£bn £bn £bn

Barclays UK 3.3 59.7 0.2 – – 0.1 0.1 – 11.8 75.2
Barclays International 55.6 67.0 9.9 15.0 0.2 3.3 13.9 16.8 29.0 210.7
Head Office 4.3 5.8 – – – – – – 15.9 26.0
Barclays Group 63.2 132.5 10.1 15.0 0.2 3.4 14.0 16.8 56.7 311.9

As at 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 3.8 55.0 – – – – – – 12.2 70.9
Barclays International 49.1 69.5 17.0 17.2 0.1 2.8 13.3 13.5 27.7 210.3
Head Office 2.9 9.8 0.1 0.6 – 0.2 0.1 1.4 16.8 31.8
Barclays Group 55.8 134.2 17.1 17.9 0.1 3.0 13.4 14.9 56.7 313.0

Movement analysis of risk weighted assets

Risk weighted assets

Credit 
risk 
£bn

Counterparty
 credit riska

£bn

Market 
risk
£bn

Operational
 risk
£bn

Total 
RWAs

£bn
As at 31 December 2017 190.0 38.0 28.3 56.7 313.0
Book size 6.8 (0.6) 2.2 – 8.4
Acquisitions and disposals (3.6) (0.3) (0.2) – (4.1)
Book quality (2.9) (0.5) – – (3.4)
Model updates – – – – –
Methodology and policy 2.2 (7.8) 0.5 – (5.1)
Foreign exchange movementa 3.1 – – – 3.1
As at 31 December 2018 195.6 28.8 30.8 56.7 311.9

Note
a  Foreign exchange movement does not include FX for modelled counterparty risk or modelled market risk.

RWAs decreased £1.1bn to £311.9bn:
■■ book size increased RWAs £8.4bn primarily due to increased lending activity within the Investment Banking and Consumer, Cards & Payments 

businesses
■■ acquisitions and disposals decreased RWAs £4.1bn primarily due to the regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL
■■ book quality decreased RWAs £3.4bn primarily due to changes in the risk profile in Barclays International
■■ methodology and policy decreased RWAs £5.1bn primarily due to an extended regulatory permission to use the modelled exposure 

measurement approach
■■ foreign exchange movements increased RWAs £3.1bn primarily due to appreciation of period end USD against GBP.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 201

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Leverage ratios and exposures
From 1 January 2018, following the end of the transitional period Barclays is required to disclose an average UK leverage ratio which is based 
on capital on the last day of each month in the quarter and an exposure measure for each day in the quarter. During the transitional period, 
the exposure measure was based on the last day of each month in the quarter. Barclays is also required to disclose a UK leverage ratio based 
on capital and exposure on the last day of the quarter. Both approaches exclude qualifying claims on central banks from the leverage exposures. 

Leverage ratiosa,b

As at 31 December
2018

£bn
2017
£bn

UK leverage ratio 5.1% 5.1%

CET1 capital 41.1 41.6
AT1 capital 9.5 8.8
T1 capitalc 50.6 50.4

UK leverage exposure 999 985

Average UK leverage ratio 4.5% 4.9%
Average T1 capitalc 50.5 51.2
Average UK leverage exposured 1,110 1,045

UK leverage exposure

As at 31 December
2018

£bn
2017
£bn

Accounting assets
Derivative financial instruments 223 238
Derivative cash collateral 48 53
Securities financing transactions (SFTs) 121 113
Loans and advances and other assets 741 729
Total IFRS assets 1,133 1,133

Regulatory consolidation adjustments (2) 8

Derivatives adjustments
Derivatives netting (202) (217)
Adjustments to cash collateral (42) (42)
Net written credit protection 19 14
Potential Future Exposure (PFE) on derivatives 123 120
Total derivatives adjustments (102) (125)

SFTs adjustments 17 19

Regulatory deductions and other adjustments (11) (13)

Weighted off-balance sheet commitments 108 103

Qualifying central bank claims (144) (140)
UK leverage exposureb 999 985

Notes
a The fully loaded UK leverage ratio was 4.9%, with £49.3bn of T1 capital and £997bn of leverage exposure calculated without applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR. 
b Capital and leverage measures are calculated applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR.
c The T1 capital is calculated in line with the PRA Handbook, which excludes grandfathered AT1 instruments allowed under the CRR.
d The average UK leverage exposure as at 31 December 2017 was calculated based on the last day of each month in the quarter.

The UK leverage ratio remained flat at 5.1% (December 2017: 5.1%). The leverage exposure increased marginally to £999bn (December 2017: 
£985bn). The leverage exposure movements included:
■■ loans and advances and other assets increased £12bn to £741bn primarily driven by growth in the UK mortgage portfolio 
■■ SFTs increased £8bn to £121bn primarily driven by the CIB utilising leverage balance sheet more efficiently within high returning 
financing business

■■ regulatory consolidation adjustments decreased £10bn primarily driven by the regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL.

The average UK leverage ratio decreased to 4.5% (December 2017: 4.9%) partially driven by the change to the daily exposure measure. Average 
UK leverage exposures increased due to higher trading activity in SFTs and trading portfolio assets, as well as a decrease in average Tier 1 capital.

The difference between the average UK leverage ratio and the UK leverage ratio was primarily driven by lower trading portfolio assets, settlement 
exposures and SFT exposures at quarter end.

Barclays is required to disclose a CRR leverage ratio. This is included in the additional Barclays regulatory disclosures, prepared in accordance with 
European Banking Authority (EBA) guidelines on disclosure requirements under Part Eight of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (see the Barclays PLC 
Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited)), due to be published by 21 February 2019, available at home.barclays/results.

<Page End><Page Start>
202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Foreign exchange risk (audited)
The Barclays Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.

a) Transactional foreign currency exposure
Transactional foreign currency exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the transacting entity.

The Barclays Group's risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio 
managed by Barclays International which is monitored through VaR.

Banking book transactional foreign exchange risk outside of Barclays International is monitored on a daily basis by the market risk function 
and minimised by the businesses.

b) Translational foreign exchange exposure
The Barclays Group's investments in overseas subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies, principally 
USD and EUR. Changes in the GBP value of the net investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation 
reserve, resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.

The Barclays Group's strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange movements, by matching the CET1 
capital movements to the revaluation of the Barclays Group's foreign currency RWA exposures.

Functional currency of operations (audited)

Foreign 
currency 

net
 investments

£m

Borrowings 
which hedge 

the net 
investments

£m

Derivatives 
which hedge 

the net
 investments

£m

Structural 
currency

 exposures 
pre-

economic 
hedges

£m

Economic 
hedges

£m

Remaining 
structural 
currency

 exposures
£m

As at 31 December 2018
USD 28,857 (12,322) (2,931) 13,604 (4,827) 8,777
EUR 2,672 (3) – 2,669 (2,146) 523
ZAR 5 – – 5 – 5
JPY 489 – – 489 – 489
Other 2,021 – (37) 1,984 – 1,984
Total 34,044 (12,325) (2,968) 18,751 (6,973) 11,778

As at 31 December 2017
USD 27,848 (12,404) (540) 14,904 (6,153) 8,751
EUR 2,489 (3) – 2,486 (2,127) 359
ZAR 8 – – 8 – 8
JPY 467 (152) (301) 14 – 14
Other 2,475 – (1,299) 1,176 – 1,176
Total 33,287 (12,559) (2,140) 18,588 (8,280) 10,308

The economic hedges primarily represent the USD and EUR preference shares and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instruments that are held as equity. 
These are accounted for at historical cost under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.

During 2018, total structural currency exposure net of hedging instruments increased by £1.5bn to £11.8bn (2017: £10.3bn). Foreign currency 
net investments increased by £0.7bn to £34.0bn (2017: £33.3bn) driven predominantly by a £1.0bn increase in US Dollars and a £0.2bn increase 
in Euro offset by a £0.5bn decrease in other currencies. The hedges associated with these investments increased by £0.6bn to £15.3bn 
(2017: £14.7bn).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 203

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Pension risk review
The UK Retirement Fund (UKRF) represents approximately 97% (2017: 96%) of Barclays Group's total retirement benefit obligations globally. 
As such this risk review section focuses exclusively on the UKRF. The UKRF is closed to new entrants and there is no new final salary benefit being 
accrued. Existing active members accrue a combination of a cash balance benefit and a defined contribution element. Pension risk arises as the 
market value of the pension fund assets may decline, investment returns may reduce or the estimated value of the pension liabilities may increase.

Refer to page 179 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited) for more information on how pension risk is managed.

Assets
The Trustee Board of the UKRF defines its overall long-term investment strategy with investments across a broad range of asset classes. This 
results in an appropriate mix of return seeking assets as well as liability matching assets to better match future pension obligations. The main 
market risks within the asset portfolio are interest rates and equities. The split of scheme assets is shown within Note 33. The fair value of the 
UKRF assets was £29.0bn as at 31 December 2018 (2017: £30.1bn).

Liabilities
The UKRF retirement benefit obligations are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis these cash flows 
are sensitive to changes in the expected long-term price inflation rate (RPI) and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield):
■■ an increase in long-term expected inflation corresponds to an increase in liabilities
■■ a decrease in the discount rate corresponds to an increase in liabilities.

Pension risk is generated through Barclays Group's defined benefit schemes and this risk is set to reduce over time as the main defined benefit 
scheme is closed to new entrants. The chart below outlines the shape of the UKRF's liability cash flow profile as at 31 December 2018 that takes 
account of the future inflation indexing of payments to beneficiaries. The majority of the cash flows (approximately 92%) fall between 0 and 
40 years, peaking between 11 and 20 years and reducing thereafter. The shape may vary depending on changes to inflation and longevity 
expectations and any members who elect to transfer out. Transfers out will bring forward the liability cash flows.

For more detail on the UKRF's financial and demographic assumptions see Note 33 to the financial statements. 

Proportion of liability cash flows IAS 19 pension position in 2018

0-10 Years 23.2%

11-20 Years 29.1%

21-30 Years 25.2%

31-40 Years 14.5%

41-50 Years 6.6%

51 Years+ 1.4% Q4 Dec 2016

2

0

UKRF Net IAS19 position (£bn)

Q4 Dec 2017 Q4 Dec 2018

The graph above shows the UKRF's net IAS 19 pension position at each month-end for the past two years. During 2017 and 2018 the net 
improvement in the IAS 19 position was largely driven by bank contributions and credit spreads widening. Changes from other market levels, 
in particular equity prices and interest rates, were offset by updates to demographic assumptions. Refer to Note 33 for the sensitivity of the UKRF 
to changes in key assumptions.

Risk measurement
In line with Barclays' risk management framework the assets and liabilities of the UKRF are modelled within a VaR framework to show the volatility 
of the pension position at a total portfolio level. This enables the risks, diversification and liability matching characteristics of the UKRF obligations 
and investments to be adequately captured. VaR is measured and monitored on a monthly basis. Risks are reviewed and reported regularly 
at forums including the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Committee, the Pensions Management Group and the Pension Executive Board. 
The VaR model takes into account the valuation of the liabilities on an IAS 19 basis (see Note 33). The Trustee receives quarterly VaR measures 
on a funding basis.

The pension liability is also sensitive to post-retirement mortality assumptions which are reviewed regularly. See Note 33 for more details.

In addition, the impact of pension risk to Barclays Group is taken into account as part of the stress testing process. Stress testing is performed 
internally on at least an annual basis. The UKRF exposure is also included as part of regulatory stress tests. 

Barclays defined benefit pension schemes affects capital in two ways:
■■ an IAS 19 deficit is treated as a liability on Barclays Group's balance sheet. Movement in a deficit due to remeasurements, including actuarial 

losses, are recognised immediately through Other Comprehensive Income and as such reduces shareholders' equity and CET1 capital.  
An IAS 19 surplus is treated as an asset on the balance sheet and increases shareholders' equity; however, it is deducted for the purposes 
of determining CET1 capital

■■ in Barclays Group's statutory balance sheet an IAS 19 surplus or deficit is partially offset by a deferred tax liability or asset respectively. 
These may or may not be recognised for calculating CET1 capital depending on the overall deferred tax position of Barclays Group at the 
particular time.

Pension risk is taken into account in the Pillar 2A capital assessment undertaken by the PRA at least annually. The Pillar 2A requirement forms part 
of Barclays Group's overall regulatory minimum requirement for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. More detail on minimum regulatory 
requirements can be found on page 198.

<Page End><Page Start>
204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL)
Under the Bank of England's statement of policy on MREL, the Bank of England will set MREL for UK Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) 
as necessary to implement the total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) standard. Institution or group-specific MREL requirements will depend on the 
preferred resolution strategy for that institution or group. 

The MREL requirements will be phased in from 1 January 2019 and will be fully implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time G-SIBs with 
resolution entities incorporated in the UK, including Barclays, will be required to meet an MREL equivalent to the higher of either: (i) two times 
the sum of its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements or; (ii) the higher of two times its leverage ratio requirement or 6.75% of leverage exposures. 
However, the PRA will review the MREL calibration by the end of 2020, including assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may 
drive a different 1 January 2022 MREL requirement than currently proposed. In addition, it is proposed that CET1 capital cannot be counted 
towards both MREL and the combined buffer requirement (CBR), meaning that the CBR will effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 and 
Pillar 2A requirements relating to own funds and MREL.

Barclays' indicative MREL requirement is currently expected to be 30.0% of RWAs from 1 January 2022 consisting of the following components:
■■ loss absorption and recapitalisation amounts consisting of 8% Pillar 1 and 4.7% Pillar 2A buffers respectively
■■ regulatory buffers including a 1.5% G-SII buffer, 2.5% CCB and 0.5% from the planned introduction of a 1% CCyB for the UKa.

MREL position and ratios
MREL ratios 2018 2017
CET1 capitalb 13.2% 13.3%
Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital instruments and related share premium accounts 3.1% 2.9%
Tier 2 (T2) capital instruments and related share premium accounts 2.1% 2.1%
Term senior unsecured funding 9.7% 6.8%
Total Barclays PLC (the Parent company) MREL ratio 28.1% 25.0%
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesc 0.7% 1.1%
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesc 1.6% 2.2%
Total MREL ratio, including eligible Barclays Bank PLC instruments 30.5% 28.2%

MREL position £bn £bn
CET1 capitalb 41.1 41.6
AT1 capital instruments and related share premium accounts 9.6 8.9
T2 capital instruments and related share premium accounts 6.6 6.5
Term senior unsecured funding 30.4 21.2
Total Barclays PLC (the Parent company) MREL position 87.7 78.2
Qualifying AT1 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesc 2.3 3.4
Qualifying T2 capital (including minority interests) issued by subsidiariesc 5.1 6.8
Total MREL position, including eligible Barclays Bank PLC instruments 95.1 88.4

Total RWAs 311.9 313.0

Notes
a 2022 requirements subject to Bank of England review by the end of 2020.
b CET1 capital and RWAs are calculated applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR. This includes IFRS 9 transitional arrangements and the grandfathering of CRR 

non-compliant capital instruments.
c Includes other AT1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions of £0.1bn (December 2017: £0.1bn), and other T2 credit risk adjustments and deductions of £0.3bn 

(December 2017: £0.3bn).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 205

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Overview
The non-traded market risk framework 
covers exposures in the banking book, 
mostly relating to accrual accounted and 
FVOCI instruments. The potential volatility 
of net interest income is measured by an 
Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) metric which 
is monitored regularly and reported to senior 
management and the BRC as part of the limit 
monitoring framework.

For further detail on interest rate risk in the 
banking book governance and framework 
refer to page 180 of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 
Report 2018 (unaudited).

Summary of performance 
in the period
Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR), is a key 
measure of interest rate risk in the banking 
book (IRRBB).

Interest rate risk in the banking book
The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch 
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

All disclosures in this section (pages 205 to 207) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics
AEaR  

+£213m
across Barclays Group from a positive 100bps shock in interest rates.

<Page End><Page Start>
206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Treasury and capital risk

Risk review

Net interest income sensitivity
The table below shows a sensitivity analysis on pre-tax net interest income for non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities, including 
the effect of any hedging. The sensitivity has been measured using the Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) methodology as described on page 180 
of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited). Note that this metric assumes an instantaneous parallel change to interest rate forward 
curves. The model floors shocked market rates at zero; changes in Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity are only observed where forward rates are 
greater than zero. The main model assumptions are: (i) one-year time horizon; (ii) balance sheet is held constant; (iii) balances are adjusted for 
assumed behavioural profiles (i.e. considers that customers may remortgage before the contractual maturity); and (iv) behavioural assumptions 
are kept unchanged in all rate scenarios.

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by business unita,b,c (audited)

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays
 International

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
+100bps 124 89 213
+25bps 30 23 53
-25bps (73) (35) (108)

As at 31 December 2017
+100bps 45 31 76
+25bps 11 9 20
-25bps (61) (22) (83)

Notes
a Excludes investment banking business.
b Excludes Treasury operations, which are driven by the firm's investments in the liquidity pool, which are risk managed using value-based risk measures described on page 180 

of the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2018 (unaudited). Treasury's NII (AEaR) sensitivity to a +25/-25bps move is +£23m/-£29m respectively.
c Expected fixed rate mortgage pipeline completions in Barclays UK assumed to be consistent with level and timing of pipeline hedging.

NII asymmetry arises due to the current low level of interest rates. Modelled NII sensitivity to a -25bps shock to rates has increased year on year 
as a result of maturity of hedging which provided an offset to the exposure to falling interest rates. Modelled NII sensitivity to +25bps and +100bps 
shocks to rates also increased as a result. 

Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by currencya

As at 31 December

2018 2017
+25 basis

points
£m

-25 basis
points

£m

+25 basis
points

£m

-25 basis
points

£m

GBP 43 (99) 12 (76)
USD 1 (1) 1 (1)
EUR 6 (3) 4 (1)
Other currencies 3 (5) 3 (5)
Total 53 (108) 20 (83)
As percentage of net interest income 0.58% (1.19%) 0.20% (0.84%)

Note
a  Barclays UK and Barclays International sensitivity (excluding Investment Banking business and Treasury).

Analysis of equity sensitivity
Equity sensitivity table measures the overall impact of a +/- 25bps movement in interest rates on retained earnings, fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI) and cash flow hedge reserves. This data is captured using DV01 metric which is an indicator of the shift in value 
for a one basis point in the yield curve.

Analysis of equity sensitivity (audited)

As at 31 December

2018 2017
+25 basis

points
£m

-25 basis
points

£m

+25 basis
points

£m

-25 basis
points

£m

Net interest income 53 (108) 20 (83)
Taxation effects on the above (13) 27 (6) 25
Effect on profit for the year 40 (81) 14 (58)
As percentage of net profit after tax 1.69% (3.41%) (1.57%) 6.49%

Effect on profit for the year (per above) 40 (81) 14 (58)
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (143) 256 (164) 219
Cash flow hedge reserve (574) 544 (616) 598
Taxation effects on the above 179 (200) 195 (204)
Effect on equity (498) 519 (571) 555
As percentage of equity (0.78%) 0.81% (0.87%) 0.84%

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 207

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

As discussed in relation to the net interest income sensitivity table on page 206, the increase in impact of a 25bps movement in rates as a result 
of maturity of hedging.

Movements in the FVOCI reserve would impact CET1 capital, however the movement in the cash flow hedge reserve would not impact CET1 capital.

Volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool 
Changes in value of FVOCI exposures flow directly through capital via the FVOCI reserve. The volatility of the value of the FVOCI investments 
in the liquidity pool is captured and managed through a value measure rather than an earning measure, i.e. the non-traded market risk VaR.

Although the underlying methodology to calculate the non-traded VaR is identical to the one used in traded management VaR, the two measures 
are not directly comparable. The non-traded VaR represents the volatility to capital driven by the FVOCI exposures. These exposures are in the 
banking book and do not meet the criteria for trading book treatment.

Non-traded value at risk (£m)

Jan 2018

80

60

20

40

Dec 2018

Daily value at risk (£m) 

Analysis of volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool

For the year ended 31 December

2018 2017
Average

£m
High

£m
Low
£m

Average
£m

High
£m

Low
£m

Non-traded market value at risk (daily, 95%) 45 61 32 36 50 27

The volatility in the FVOCI portfolio was primarily driven by changes in interest rate risk exposure taken in the liquid asset buffer.

<Page End><Page Start>
208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk review

Risk performance
Operational risk

Overview
Operational risks are inherent in Barclays 
Group's business activities and it is not always 
cost effective or possible to attempt to 
eliminate all operational risks. The Operational 
Risk Management Framework is therefore 
focused on identifying operational risks, 
assessing them and managing them within 
Barclays Group's approved risk appetite. 

The operational risk principal risk comprises 
the following risks: data management and 
information, financial reporting, fraud, 
payments process, people, physical security, 
premises, prudential regulation, supplier, 
tax, technology and transaction operations.

For definitions of these risks see pages 143 
and 144. In order to provide complete 
coverage of the potential adverse impacts on 
Barclays Group arising from operational risk, 
the operational risk taxonomy extends beyond 
the risks listed above to cover operational risks 
associated with other principal risks too.

This section provides an analysis of Barclays 
Group's operational risk profile, including 
events above Barclays Group's reportable 
threshold, which have had a financial impact 
in 2018.

For information on conduct risk events, 
see page 212.

Summary of performance 
in the period
During 2018, total operational risk losses 
decreased to £220m (2017: £291m) and the 
number of recorded events for 2018 decreased 
to 1,995 from 2,770 events recorded during 
the prior year. The total operational risk losses 
for the year were primarily driven by events 
falling within the execution, delivery and 
process management and external fraud 
categories, which tend to be high volume 
but low impact events.

Operational risk
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors 
or due to external events (for example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit 
or market risks.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

Key metrics

84%
of Barclays Group's net reportable operational risk events had a loss value of £50,000 or less

61%
of events by number are due to external fraud

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 209

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Operational risk profile
Within operational risk, a high proportion 
of risk events have a low financial impact 
whilst a very small proportion of operational 
risk events will have a material impact  
on the financial results of Barclays Group. 
In 2018, 84% of Barclays Group's reportable 
operational risk events by volume had a value 
of less than £50,000 (2017: 86%), although 
this type of event accounted for only 14% 
(2017: 16%) of Barclays Group's total net 
operational risk losses. 

The analysis below presents Barclays Group's 
operational risk events by Basel event category:
■■ execution, delivery and process 

management impacts decreased to £127m 
(2017: £216m) and accounted for 58% 
(2017: 74%) of total operational risk losses. 
The events in this category are typical of 
the banking industry as a whole where high 
volumes of transactions are processed on 
a daily basis. Whilst the overall frequency of 
events in this category increased in 2018 to 
31% of total events by volume (2017: 24%), 
the decrease in total impacts was due to 
a lower number of events with high loss 
values compared to the prior year

■■ external fraud remains the category with 
the highest frequency of events at 61% 
of total events in 2018, although down 
from 72% in prior year. In this category, 
high volume, low value events are driven 
by transactional fraud often related to debit 
and credit card usage

■■ business disruption and system failures 
impacts decreased to £13m (2017: £20m), 
although count of events increased slightly 
year on year to 93 (73 for 2017) accounting 
for 4.7% of total events by volume in 2018 
(2017: 2.6%). The decrease in total impacts 
was due to a lower number of events with 
high loss values compared to the prior year

■■ employment practices and workplace 
safety impacts show a significant increase 
to £35m (2017: £0.3m) accounting for 
16% of total operational risk losses in 2018. 
This resulted from a low number of events 
with significant impacts (three single 
legacy events relating to closed businesses 
accounted for 91% of these impacts) 
although the number of events in this 
category also increased to 48 for 2018 
(11 for 2017)

Barclays Group's operational risk profile 
is informed by bottom-up risk assessments 
undertaken by each business unit and 
top-down qualitative review by the operational 
risk specialists for each risk type. Fraud, 
transaction operations and technology 
continue to be highlighted as key operational 
risk exposures. The operational risk profile 
is also informed by a number of risk themes: 
cyber, data, execution and resilience. 
These represent threats to Barclays Group 
that extend across multiple risk types, 
and therefore require an integrated risk 
management approach. 

Investment continues to be made in improving 
the control environment across Barclays 
Group. Particular areas of focus include new 
and enhanced fraud prevention systems and 
tools to combat the increasing level of fraud 
attempts being made and to minimise any 
disruption to genuine transactions. Fraud 
remains an industry-wide threat and Barclays 
Group continues to work closely with external 
partners on various prevention initiatives. 
Technology, resilience and cybersecurity risks 
evolve rapidly so Barclays Group maintains 
continued focus and investment in our control 
environment to manage these risks, and 
actively partners with peers and relevant 
organisations to understand and disrupt 
threats originating outside Barclays Group.

Cyber threats, which are evolving and 
increasing in sophistication and frequency, 
continue to be a threat across multiple 
industries globally. Barclays Group recognises 
the potential impact of cybersecurity threats 
on all areas of its business. This extends to 
third-party suppliers and service providers 
which also presents a potential source of 
cybersecurity threats, leading to the need 
for increased scrutiny of Barclays Group's 
relationships with third parties. The potential 
impact of cybersecurity threats includes 
the potential for operational disruption, 
reputational harm, and costs associated 
with possible litigation, regulatory 
investigation, and remediation. The Regulators 
in Europe and the US have been increasingly 
focused on cybersecurity risk management 
and operational resilience for banking 
organisations given the complexity of the 
transactions they process, the number of 
jurisdictions in which they operate, and the 
quantities of sensitive data they hold and 
process. This has resulted in a number 
of  proposed laws, regulations and other 

requirements that necessitate implementation 
of a variety of increased controls and 
enhancement activities for regulated Barclays 
Group entities. These include, among others, 
the adoption of cybersecurity policies and 
procedures meeting specified criteria, 
minimum required security measures, controls 
and procedures for enhanced reporting and 
public disclosures, compliance certification 
requirements, and other cyber and 
information risk governance measures. 
Further to this, Barclays Group continues to 
use an intelligence-driven defence approach, 
analysing external events for current and 
emerging cyber threats which allows the 
delivery of proactive counter measures; 
Barclays Group also completes cyber threat 
scenarios and incident playbooks to assess 
our security posture and business impacts 
and runs an internal adversarial capability 
which simulates hackers to proactively test 
controls and responses. The increased control 
environment has enhanced and will continue 
to enhance our security posture and our 
ability to better protect the organisation and 
our customers. Cyberattacks however are 
increasingly sophisticated and there can be 
no assurance that the measures implemented 
will be fully effective to prevent or mitigate 
future attacks, the consequences of which 
could be significant to Barclays Group. 
Furthermore, such measures have resulted 
and will result in increased technology and 
other costs in connection with cybersecurity 
mitigation and compliance for Barclays Group. 
Barclays Group currently incurs an additional 
cost in mitigating its cyber risk via insurance.

For further information, refer to operational 
risk management section (pages 143 to 144).

<Page End><Page Start>
210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Operational risk

Risk review

Operational risk events by Basel event categorya
% of total risk events by count % of total risk events by value

Internal fraud

External fraud

2018 0.5%

2017 0.5%

61.0%

Execution, delivery and process management

71.9%

30.9%

24.3%

Employment practices and workplace safety
2.4%

Damage to physical assets

0.4%

0.4%

0.2%

Clients, products and business practices
0.2%

Business disruption and system failures

0.0%

4.7%

2.6%

Internal fraud

External fraud

2018 0.4%

2017 0.4%

19.1%

Execution, delivery and process management

18.0%

57.8%

74.3%

Employment practices and workplace safety
15.8%

Damage to physical assets

0.1%

0.2%

0.1%

Clients, products and business practices
0.6%

Business disruption and system failures

0.0%

6.1%

7.0%

Note
a  The data disclosed includes operational risk losses for reportable events (excluding BAGL) having impact of >£10,000 and excludes events that are conduct or legal risk, 

aggregate and boundary events. A boundary event is an operational risk event that results in a credit risk impact. Due to the nature of risk events that keep evolving, prior year 
losses are updated.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 211

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk performance
Model risk

Risk review

Overview
Model risk is a focus area for management 
and the Barclays Group Board. It is an 
important component of regulators' 
assessment of Barclays' risk management 
capabilities. Models are used to support a 
broad range of business and risk management 
activities, including informing business 
decisions and strategies, measuring and 
limiting risks, valuing exposures, conducting 
stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, 
supporting new business acceptance and 
risk/reward evaluation, managing client 
assets, or meeting reporting requirements.

Summary of performance 
in the period 
The principal risk framework for model 
risk was established in 2016. In 2017, 
the framework was enhanced and governance 
and controls capabilities were established. 
In 2018 the framework was embedded 
further in the organisation and governance 
was improved by:
■■ strengthening of the Barclays Group-wide 

Model Risk Management (MRM) 
framework, policy and associated standards, 
validation templates and procedures

■■ broadening governance of models to 
include qualitative estimation approaches 
called ‘non-modelled methods', which cover 
material decision making and financial and 
regulatory reporting functions of Barclays 
Group, such as the primary stress testing 
programmes and impairment estimations

■■ enhancement of Board oversight of model 
risk, through the reporting of the model risk 
tolerance framework and periodic updates 
to the Board on the progress of the MRM 
implementation

■■ improved collection and attestation of 
Barclays Group's global inventory of models

■■ reporting metrics on policy adherence 
and breaches

■■ enhancement of model development and 
model identification processes, with the 
areas of model ownership throughout 
Barclays Group embedding and improving 
their own model control functions.

In addition to the governance outlined above, 
which details how new models are validated 
and existing models are internally controlled 
and assessed, models have been classified 
based on their materiality (the level of reliance 
placed on the model output for decision 
making or reporting), and their complexity. 
A strengthened programme of review and 
validation for such material models 
commenced during 2017 and has made 
significant progress in 2018. In 2019 through 
to 2020, model risk governance will continue 
with the programme of model documentation 
and reviews, targeting prioritised models 
across Barclays Group as well as focusing on 
performance monitoring of models already 
brought into governance to assess compliance 
with the framework.

Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions 
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Conduct risk

Risk review

Overview
Barclays strives to create and maintain 
mutually beneficial long-term relationships 
with its customers and clients. This means 
taking appropriate steps to understand their 
needs and providing them with products and 
services that meet those needs appropriately 
and help them manage their financial affairs. 

As a transatlantic consumer, corporate and 
investment bank, Barclays also plays a critical 
role in promoting fair, open and transparent 
markets, as well as fostering shared growth 
for all.

Summary of performance 
in the period
Barclays is committed to continuing to drive 
the right culture throughout all levels of 
the organisation. Barclays will continue to 
enhance effective management of conduct 
risk and appropriately consider the relevant 
tools, governance and management 
information in decision-making processes. 
Focus on management of conduct risk is 
ongoing and amongst other relevant business 
and control management information the 
Barclays Group Conduct Dashboards are 
a key component of this. 

Barclays Group continues to review the 
role and impact of conduct issues in the 
remuneration process at both the individual 
and business level.

Businesses have continued to assess the 
potential customer, client and market impacts 
of strategic change and structural reform. 
As part of the 2018 Medium-Term Planning 
Process, material conduct risks associated with 
strategic and financial plans were assessed. 

Throughout 2018, conduct risks were raised 
by businesses for consideration by the Board 
Reputation Committee. The Committee 
reviewed the risks raised and whether 
management's proposed actions were 
appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. 
The Board Reputation Committee received 
regular updates with regards to key risks and 
issues including those relating to structural 
reform and regulatory change. 

Although certain legacy litigation and conduct 
issues have been resolved, the Barclays Group 
continued to incur costs in relation to litigation 
and conduct matters, refer to Note 27 Legal, 
competition and regulatory matters and Note 
25 Provisions, for further details. Costs include 
customer redress and remediation, as well 
as fines and settlements. Resolution of these 
matters remains a necessary and important 
part of delivering Barclays Group's strategy 
and an ongoing commitment to improve 
oversight of culture and conduct. 

The Board Reputation Committee and 
Senior Management received Barclays Group 
Conduct Dashboards setting out key 
indicators in relation to conduct, financial 
crime, culture, citizenship and complaints. 
These continue to be evolved and enhanced 
to allow effective oversight and decision-
making. Barclays has operated at the overall 
set tolerance for conduct risk throughout 
2018. The tolerance is assessed by the 
business through Key Indicators which are 
aggregated and provide an overall rating 
which is reported to the Board Reputation 
Committee as part of the Conduct Dashboard. 

Barclays remained focused on the continuous 
improvements being made to manage risk 
effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing 
governance and management information 
to help identify risks at earlier stages.

For further details on the non-financial 
performance measures, refer to page 19 
of the Strategic Report.

Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or 
Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful 
or negligent misconduct.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 213

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Risk performance
Reputation risk

Risk review

Overview
Reputation risk may arise from any business 
decision or activity. It may also arise as a 
result of issues and incidents relevant to other 
principal risks, in particular other non-financial 
risks e.g. conduct or operational risk. 
Reputation risks and issues are identified 
via regular information gathering from within 
the business and from external stakeholders. 
Some risks and issues are specific to Barclays 
Group, while others are also relevant to the 
banking sector more generally.

Barclays has set tolerances for reputation risk, 
which take into account the risks arising from 
specific events or decisions and longer-term 
strategic themes. The primary responsibility 
for managing reputation risk lies with each 
business and function, where there are 
processes in place to identify, assess and 
manage reputation risks and issues.

There are circumstances, however, where 
it is necessary to escalate to Barclays Group 
level the evaluation of the reputation risk 
associated with particular decisions beyond 
an individual, business or function. The GRC 
is the most senior executive body responsible 
for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of Barclays' management of reputation risk.

Summary of performance 
in the period
Barclays is committed to identifying reputation 
risks and issues as early as possible and 
managing them appropriately. At a Barclays 
Group level throughout 2018, reputation risks 
and issues were overseen by the Board 
Reputation Committee (RepCo), which reviews 
the processes and policies by which Barclays 
identifies and manages reputation risk. Within 
Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank 
Group oversight of reputation risks and issues 
was overseen by the respective Risk and Board 
Risk committees. The top live and emerging 
reputation risks and issues within Barclays 
Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank Group are 
included within an over-arching quarterly 
report to RepCo.

RepCo reviewed risks escalated by the 
businesses and considered whether 
management's proposed actions, for example 
attaching conditions to proposed client 
transactions or increased engagement with 
impacted stakeholders, were appropriate 
to mitigate the risks effectively. RepCo also 
received regular updates with regard to key 
reputation risks and issues, including: legacy 
conduct issues; Barclays' association with 
sensitive sectors; cyber and data security; 
consumer and household debt; fraud and 
scams that could impact Barclays customers 
and the resilience of key Barclays systems 
and processes.

Barclays Group continued to incur significant 
costs in relation to litigation and conduct 
matters, refer to Note 27 Legal, competition 
and regulatory matters and Note 25 Provisions 
for further details. Costs include customer 
redress and remediation, as well as fines 
and settlements. Resolution of these matters 
remains a necessary and important part of 
delivering Barclays Group's strategy and an 
ongoing commitment to improve oversight 
of culture and conduct and management 
of reputation.

In 2018, the central reputation management 
team received 486 referrals from across 
the businesses (581 referrals in 2017) for 
consideration. These referrals covered a 
variety of sectors including, but not limited 
to, defence, fossil fuels and mining.

As part of Barclays 2018 Medium-Term 
Planning Process, material reputation risks 
associated with strategic and financial plans 
were also assessed.

Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm's 
integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees 
or the public. 

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Risk performance
Legal risk

Risk review

Overview
Barclays conducts diverse activities in a 
highly regulated global market and therefore 
is exposed to the risk of loss or imposition 
of penalties, damages, fines and sanctions 
relating to a failure to meet its legal 
obligations in the conduct of its business. 
Legal risk encompasses the failure of Barclays 
to appropriately seek legal advice, escalate or 
manage contractual arrangements, litigation, 
intellectual property, competition/anti-trust 
issues, its use of law firms and its contact 
with regulators. Barclays has limited tolerance 
for legal risk, however the multitude of laws 
and regulations across the globe are highly 
dynamic and their application to particular 
circumstances is often unclear. A Legal Risk 
Management Framework (LRMF) includes 
Group-wide requirements covering how legal 
risks are identified, managed and measured 
to support effective management of legal risk.

Summary of performance 
in the period 
In 2018, Barclays remained focused on 
continuous improvements to manage legal 
risk effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing 
and establishing processes to help identify 
risks at earlier stages and escalate 
as appropriate. 

This is supported by the LRMF, which was 
reviewed and enhanced to clarify Group-wide 
requirements relating to the identification, 
management and measurement of legal risk. 
The LRMF is supported by legal risk policies 
and associated standards covering areas of 
identified legal risk and mandatory minimum 
control requirements. An additional legal risk 
policy has been created and implemented 
in relation to the engagement of the Legal 
Function with respect to key business 
decisions. For further information on the 
legal risk policies, see legal risk management 
on page 148. Refreshed legal risk mandatory 
training was also implemented across 
Barclays, reinforced by ongoing engagement 
and education of Barclays businesses 
and functions. 

The Legal Function organisation and coverage 
model aligns expertise to businesses, 
functions, products, activities and geographic 
locations. It continues to provide legal support, 
oversight, monitoring and challenge across the 
organisation, including advising on appropriate 
identification, management and escalation 
of legal risk. The Legal Executive Committee 
continues to oversee, monitor and challenge 
legal risk across Barclays.

Legal risk
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm 
to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.

All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 215

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

Supervision of Barclays Group 
Barclays Group's operations, including 
its overseas branches, subsidiaries and 
associates, are subject to a large number 
of rules and regulations that are a condition 
for authorisations to conduct banking and 
financial services business in each of the 
jurisdictions in which Barclays Group operates. 
These apply to business operations, impact 
financial returns and include capital, leverage 
and liquidity requirements, authorisation, 
registration and reporting requirements, 
restrictions on certain activities, conduct 
of business regulations and many others. 
These requirements are set in legislation and 
by the relevant central banks and regulatory 
authorities that authorise, regulate and 
supervise Barclays Group in the jurisdictions 
in which it operates. Often, the requirements 
may reflect global standards developed 
by international bodies such as the G20, 
the Financial Stability Board (FSB), the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
(BCBS), and the International Organisation 
of Securities Commissions (lOSCO). 
Various bodies, such as central banks and 
self-regulatory organisations (SROs), also 
create voluntary Codes of Conduct which 
affect the way Barclays Group does business. 

Regulatory developments impact Barclays 
Group globally. We focus particularly on EU, 
UK and US regulation due to the location of 
Barclays Group's principal areas of business. 
Regulations elsewhere may also have a 
significant impact on Barclays Group due to 
the location of its branches, subsidiaries and, 
in some cases, clients. For more information 
on the risks related to the supervision 
and regulation of Barclays Group, including 
regulatory change, see the Risk Factor 
entitled ‘Regulatory Change agenda and 
impact on Business Model' on page 132. 

Supervision in the UK and EU 
Financial regulation in the UK is to a 
significant degree shaped and influenced 
by EU legislation. This provides the structure 
of the European Single Market, an important 
feature of which is the framework for the 
regulation of authorised firms in the EU. 
This framework is designed to enable a credit 
institution or investment firm authorised in 
one EU member state to conduct banking or 
investment business in another member state 
through the establishment of branches or by 
the provision of services on a cross-border 
basis without the need for local authorisation. 
Barclays Group's operations in Europe are 
authorised and regulated by a combination 
of both home and host regulators. The impact 
of the UK's departure from the EU in this 
respect and, more broadly, its impact on the 
UK domestic regulatory framework, is yet 
to be finally determined. In the UK, the Bank 
of England (BoE) has responsibility for 
monitoring the UK financial system as a 
whole, including by way of conducting annual 
stress tests on UK banks. The day-to-day 
regulation and supervision of Barclays Group 
is divided between the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) (a division of the BoE) and 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 

In addition, the Financial Policy Committee 
(FPC) of the BoE has influence on the 
prudential requirements that may be imposed 
on the banking system through its powers 
of direction and recommendation. 

Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC 
are authorised and subject to prudential 
supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct 
regulation and supervision by the FCA. 
Barclays Group is also subject to prudential 
supervision by the PRA on a group 
consolidated basis. Barclays Services Limited 
is an appointed representative of Barclays 
Bank PLC and Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (the principals). This status enables 
Barclays Services Limited to undertake 
activities which would otherwise require 
authorisation, with the principals assuming 
regulatory responsibility for the conduct 
of Barclays Services Limited as their 
appointed representative. 

Barclays Bank Ireland PLC is licensed as a 
credit institution by the Central Bank of Ireland 
and has recently been designated as a 
significant institution falling under direct 
supervision on a solo basis by the European 
Central Bank (ECB) from 1 January 2019. 
Barclays Bank Ireland PLC has recently 
acquired an extension of its current licence 
to support Barclays Group's ability to provide 
services to EU clients after Brexit. Barclays 
Bank Ireland PLC's German branch is 
supervised by the ECB as part of Barclays Bank 
Ireland PLC and is also subject to direct 
supervision for local conduct purposes by 
the German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority (BaFIN) in accordance with EU 
credit institution branch passporting rules. 
It is expected that all the remaining EU 
branches of Barclays Bank PLC will have been 
transferred to Barclays Bank Ireland PLC by 
the end of Q1 2019 and will, following such 
transfer, be supervised by the ECB as part of 
Barclays Bank Ireland PLC and also be subject 
to direct supervision for local conduct 
purposes in accordance with EU credit 
institution branch passporting rules, by 
national supervisory authorities in the 
jurisdiction where they are established. 
Barclays Group is also subject to regulatory 
initiatives undertaken by the UK Payment 
Systems Regulator (PSR), as a participant 
in payment systems regulated by the PSR. 

In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to 
maintain the safety and soundness of financial 
institutions with the aim of strengthening, but 
not guaranteeing, the protection of customers 
and the financial system. The PRA's continuing 
supervision of financial institutions is 
conducted through a variety of regulatory 
tools, including the collection of information 
by way of prudential returns, reports obtained 
from skilled persons, visits to firms and 
regular meetings with management and 
non-executive directors to discuss issues 
such as strategy, operational resilience, risk 
management, and recovery and resolution.

The regulation and supervision of market 
conduct matters is the responsibility of the 
FCA. The FCA's regulation of the UK firms 

in Barclays Group is carried out through a 
combination of proactive engagement, regular 
thematic work and project work based on the 
FCA's sector assessments, which analyse the 
different areas of the market and the risks that 
may lie ahead. 

Both the PRA and the FCA have continued 
to develop and apply a more pre-emptive 
approach to supervision and the application 
of existing standards. This may include the 
application of standards that either anticipate 
or go beyond requirements established by 
global or EU standards, whether in relation 
to capital, leverage and liquidity, resolvability 
and resolution or matters of conduct. 

The FCA has retained an approach to 
enforcement based on credible deterrence 
that has seen significant growth in the size 
of regulatory fines. The approach appears 
to be trending towards a more US model of 
enforcement including vigorous enforcement 
of criminal and regulatory breaches, 
heightened fines and proposed measures 
related to increased corporate criminal liability. 

The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk 
and on customer outcomes and will continue 
to do so. This has included a focus on the 
design and operation of products, the 
behaviour of customers and the operation 
of markets. Recently, the FCA has increased 
its focus on fair pricing in financial services. 
The FCA is also reviewing whether vulnerable 
customers pay more for financial services 
products. These initiatives may affect both 
the incidence of conduct costs and increase 
the cost of remediation. 

The FCA and the PRA have also increasingly 
focused on individual accountability 
within firms. This focus is reflected in the 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime 
(the SMCR) which came into force in 2016. 
The SMCR, which implements the 
recommendations in the final report of 
the Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards relating to individual accountability 
in banks, imposes a regulatory approval, 
accountability and fitness and propriety 
framework in respect of senior or key 
individuals within relevant firms. 

The UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has played 
an active role in recent years in investigating 
and prosecuting complex fraud, bribery and 
corruption. If, as a result of an investigation, 
the SFO determines that it has sufficient 
evidence to support a realistic prospect 
of conviction, and to prosecute would be in 
the public interest, the SFO may bring forward 
a prosecution. Alternatively, the SFO may 
consider using a Deferred Prosecution 
Agreement (DPA). DPAs, which were 
introduced in February 2014, are judicially 
supervised agreements between the SFO 
and organisations that could be prosecuted 
whereby the SFO suspends prosecution 
while the organisation in question complies 
with conditions imposed on it by the DPA, 
such as the payment of fines.

<Page End><Page Start>
216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

Supervision in the US 
Barclays Group's US activities and operations 
are subject to umbrella supervision by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System (FRB), as well as additional 
supervision, requirements and restrictions 
imposed by other federal and state regulators 
and SROs. Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC 
and their US branches and subsidiaries 
are subject to a comprehensive regulatory 
framework involving numerous statutes, rules 
and regulations, including the International 
Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act), the USA 
PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Commodity 
Exchange Act, the federal securities laws, 
and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (DFA), 
which comprehensively amended the 
regulation of financial institutions in the US 
in response to the financial crisis, including by 
amending the other aforementioned statutes. 
In some cases, US requirements may impose 
restrictions on Barclays Group's global 
activities in addition to its activities in the US. 

Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, along 
with Barclays US LLC (BUSL), Barclays Group's 
top-tier US holding company that holds 
substantially all of Barclays Group's US 
subsidiaries (including Barclays Capital Inc. 
and Barclays Bank Delaware), are regulated 
as bank holding companies (BHCs) by the 
FRB. BUSL is subject to requirements that 
are similar to those applicable to large 
US domestic bank holding companies, 
including in respect of capital adequacy, 
capital planning and stress testing 
(including FRB non-objection to proposed 
capital distributions), risk management and 
governance, liquidity, leverage limits and 
financial regulatory reporting. Barclays Bank 
PLC's US branches are also subject to 
enhanced prudential supervision 
requirements relating to, among others, 
liquidity and risk management. 

Because the BHC Act generally restricts the 
activities of BHCs to banking and activities 
closely related to banking, Barclays PLC, 
Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL have elected 
to be treated as financial holding companies 
under the BHC Act. Financial holding 
company status allows these entities to 
engage in a variety of financial and related 
activities, directly or through subsidiaries, 
including underwriting, dealing and market 
making in securities. Failure to maintain 
financial holding company status could 
result in increasingly stringent penalties 
and ultimately, in the closure or cessation 
of certain operations in the US. To qualify 
as a financial holding company, Barclays PLC 
and Barclays Bank PLC, as foreign banking 
organisations and BHCs, and BUSL, as a BHC, 
must maintain certain regulatory capital ratios 
above minimum requirements and must be 
deemed to be ‘well managed' for US bank 
regulatory purposes. In addition, any US 
depository institution subsidiaries of the 
foreign banking organisation or BHC must 
also maintain certain regulatory capital ratios 
above minimum requirements and be deemed 

to be ‘well managed' and must have at least 
a ‘satisfactory' rating under the Community 
Reinvestment Act of 1977. 

In addition to umbrella oversight by the 
FRB (and applicable Federal Reserve Banks), 
certain of Barclays Group's branches and 
subsidiaries are regulated by additional 
authorities based on the location or activities 
of those entities. The New York and Florida 
branches of Barclays Bank PLC are subject 
to extensive supervision and regulation by, 
as applicable, the New York State Department 
of Financial Services (NYSDFS) and the Florida 
Office of Financial Regulation. Barclays Bank 
Delaware, a Delaware chartered commercial 
bank, is subject to supervision and regulation 
by the Delaware Office of the State Bank 
Commissioner. The deposits of Barclays Bank 
Delaware are insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) pursuant to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which also 
provides for FDIC supervisory authority over 
Barclays Bank Delaware and requires that 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL act 
as a source of strength for the insured bank. 
This could, among other things, require these 
entities to inject capital into Barclays Bank 
Delaware if it fails to meet applicable 
regulatory capital requirements. 

Barclays Group's US securities broker/dealer 
and investment banking operations, primarily 
conducted through Barclays Capital Inc., 
are also subject to ongoing supervision 
and regulation by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry 
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and other 
government agencies and SROs as part 
of a comprehensive scheme of regulation 
of all aspects of the securities and 
commodities business under US federal 
and state securities laws. 

Similarly, Barclays Group's US commodity 
futures, commodity options and swaps-related 
and client clearing operations are subject 
to ongoing supervision and regulation by 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(CFTC), the National Futures Association 
and other SROs. Barclays Bank PLC is also 
prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer and 
is subject to the FRB swaps rules with respect 
to margin and capital requirements. 

Barclays Group's US retail and consumer 
activities, including the US credit card 
operations of Barclays Bank Delaware, are 
subject to direct supervision and regulation 
by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB). The CFPB has the authority to examine 
and take enforcement action related to 
compliance with federal laws and regulations 
regarding the provision of consumer financial 
services and the prohibition of ‘unfair, 
deceptive or abusive acts and practices'. 

Supervision in Asia Pacific 
Barclays Group's operations in Asia Pacific 
are supervised and regulated by a broad range 
of national regulators including: the Japan 
Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the 
Securities and Futures Commission of Hong 

Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, 
the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, the People's Bank 
of China, the State Administration of Foreign 
Exchange of the People's Republic of China 
and the China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory Commission. Such supervision 
and regulation extends to activities conducted 
through branches of Barclays Bank PLC in 
the Asia Pacific region as well as subsidiaries 
of Barclays Group as applicable. 

Global regulatory developments 
Regulatory change continues to affect all large 
financial institutions. Such change emanates 
from global institutions such as the G20, 
FSB, BCBS and IOSCO, the EU regionally, and 
national regulators, especially in the UK and 
US. The level of regulatory and supervisory 
uncertainty faced by Barclays Group, and 
the financial markets more broadly, continues 
to remain elevated in our primary markets. 
In the EU, the legislative and regulatory bodies 
have been implementing, and continue to 
propose, multiple financial regulatory reforms. 

There remains much uncertainty regarding 
the state of the future relationship between 
the UK and the EU and therefore the potential 
impact of the UK's withdrawal from the EU on 
the financial regulatory framework in the UK. 
There are several possible outcomes.

First, the UK could leave the EU with no deal 
or arrangement covering financial services in 
place. At the time of writing, this will happen 
on 29 March 2019. Under such a scenario, 
with no ability to passport, and no third 
country ‘equivalence'-based recognition in 
place, Barclays Group entities in the UK would 
no longer be able to provide certain of their 
services from the UK into the EU27 in the way 
in which these services are currently provided. 
As a result of the onshoring of EU legislation 
in the UK, UK firms would (at least initially) 
be subject to substantially the same rules and 
regulations as before Brexit, albeit with EU 
entities, exposures and assets ceasing to enjoy 
preferential treatment under the UK's financial 
regulatory framework (including for capital 
and liquidity purposes), given that the EU 
will become a third country for the purposes 
of such framework. The UK regulators have 
indicated that they will mitigate the impact 
of the removal of preferential treatment by 
providing transitional relief for a period of 
up to two years during which preferential 
treatment will continue to apply. The UK 
may seek to make changes to these rules 
going forward, particularly in the event of 
‘no deal', where they are not subject to any 
requirements to maintain particular rules 
or standards for equivalence purposes. 

Secondly, the UK and EU could agree a deal. 
This could either take the form of a general 
withdrawal agreement (such as the draft 
Withdrawal Agreement that Parliament voted 
against on 15 January 2019) or could be a 
series of specific bilateral agreements or 
unilateral measures on financial services 
topics to facilitate continued provision of 
services to and from the UK. In either case, 
such a deal would likely permit the provision 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 217

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

of certain services between the UK and 
the EU. In this scenario, firms incorporated 
and authorised in the UK would be able to 
continue to provide services into the EU27, 
and firms incorporated and authorised in the 
EU27 would be able to continue to provide 
services into the UK in accordance with the 
terms of such agreement. UK firms would 
again be subject to substantially the same 
rules and regulations as before Brexit as a 
result of the onshoring of EU legislation in 
the UK. There would likely be less scope for 
regulatory change in the UK as continued 
access to the EU27 would depend on the UK 
maintaining equivalence with the EU (and vice 
versa) and other constraints as may be agreed 
in such an agreement.

Thirdly, the UK could decide to delay its 
withdrawal. This would require the unanimous 
consent of all other EU member states. 
In this scenario, UK firms would continue to 
be subject to EU27 law and services could 
continue to be provided between the UK and 
EU on the basis of the existing passporting 
arrangements until such time as the UK finally 
withdraws from the EU – in which case one of 
the two scenarios described above will apply 
– unless it revokes its intention to do so. 

Finally, the UK could decide to revoke its 
intention to withdraw from the EU. This would 
likely only happen for the purposes of holding 
a second referendum, if a delay is not agreed 
to unanimously by the EU member states. 
In this scenario, the status quo in relation 
to the financial regulatory framework would 
prevail until the result of that referendum 
was known and action taken to implement 
such result.

In the US, the financial regulatory environment 
continues to evolve due to political 
developments and the ongoing implementation 
of regulations arising from the DFA and 
recent amendments to the DFA. Furthermore, 
the application of various regional rules on 
a cross-border basis increases regulatory 
complexity for global financial institutions. 
For more information, see the Risk Factor 
entitled ‘Regulatory Change agenda and 
impact on Business Model' on page 132. 

The programme of reform of the global 
regulatory framework previously agreed by 
the G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 
has continued to be taken forward throughout 
2018. The G20 continues to monitor emerging 
risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system 
and has stated that it will take action to 
address them if necessary. 

The FSB has been designated by the G20 
as the body responsible for co-ordinating 
the delivery of the global reform programme 
in relation to the financial services industry. 
It has focused particularly on the risks posed 
by systemically important financial institutions. 
In 2011, the G20 Heads of Government 
adopted FSB proposals to reform the 
regulation of global systemically important 
financial institutions (G-SIFIs), including 
global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), 
such as Barclays Group. In December 2017, 

the BCBS finalised ‘Basel III' (the BCBS 
international regulatory framework for banks), 
with the majority of the December 2017 
changes expected to be implemented by 
1 January 2022, including by regulators in 
many jurisdictions where Barclays Group 
operates. Various other measures have been 
agreed at FSB and BCBS level on capital, 
including those relating to recovery and 
resolution planning of CCPs, the identification 
and management of step-in risk, and TLAC 
(discussed in detail below).

In December 2018, the Council of the EU 
and the European Parliament announced they 
had reached a provisional political agreement 
on the proposed Risk Reduction Measures 
package, which includes the CRD V Directive 
and CRR II Regulation and will transpose 
many of the Basel III measures into EU law. 

Financial regulatory framework 
Financial services regulation can broadly 
be categorised as follows: (a) prudential 
regulation, which aims to promote safety and 
soundness of financial institutions and reduce 
risk in the financial system; (b) recovery and 
resolution, a key aspect of which is to ensure 
that G-SIFIs are capable of being resolved 
without recourse to taxpayer support and 
minimising market disruption; (c) structural 
reform and the Volcker rule, aimed at 
structurally separating certain wholesale 
activities (such as proprietary trading) from 
retail-focused activities (such as taking retail 
deposits); (d) market infrastructure regulation, 
aimed at enhancing client protection, financial 
stability and market integrity; and (e) conduct, 
culture and other regulation, which includes 
regulatory initiatives designed to pursue 
any other aims not falling within the previous 
categories (such as improving standards 
of conduct within financial services firms, 
ensuring the right culture in firms, 
and protecting personal data). 

(a) Prudential regulation 
Certain Basel III standards were implemented 
in EU law through the Capital Requirements 
Directive IV (CRD IV), which came into 
effect in 2014 and included new or enhanced 
requirements for the quality and quantity 
of capital, liquidity and leverage. Beyond 
the minimum standards required by CRD IV, 
the PRA has expected Barclays Group, in 
common with other major UK banks and 
building societies, to meet a 7% Common 
Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio at the level of the 
consolidated group since 1 January 2016. 

G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional 
prudential requirements, including the 
requirement to hold additional loss-absorbing 
capacity and additional capital buffers above 
the level required by Basel III standards. 
The level of the G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB 
according to a bank's systemic importance 
and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk-
weighted assets. The G-SIB buffer must be 
met with common equity. 

In November 2018, the FSB published an 
update to its list of G-SIBs, maintaining the 
1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to Barclays 

Group. The additional G-SIB buffer was 
subject to phase-in arrangements, with 50% 
of the buffer requirement applying in 2017, 
75% in 2018 and 100% in January 2019. 
Barclays Group is also subject to, among other 
buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) 
based on rates determined by the regulatory 
authorities in each jurisdiction in which 
Barclays Group maintains exposures. 
These rates may vary in either direction. 
On 27 June 2017, the FPC raised the UK CCyB 
rate from 0% to 0.5% with binding effect 
from 27 June 2018. In November 2017, the FPC 
raised the UK CCyB rate from 0.5% to 1% 
with binding effect from 28 November 2018. 

The FPC has a framework for determining a 
systemic risk buffer at rates between 0% and 
3% of risk weighted assets for ring-fenced 
bodies and large building societies (SRB firms). 
The systemic risk buffer is a firm-specific 
buffer, that is designed to increase the capacity 
of SRB firms to absorb stress, and which must 
be met solely with CET1. The framework has 
applied from 1 January 2019. In the UK, the 
PRA has implemented the systemic risk buffer 
framework and requires ring-fenced banks 
whose groups are already required to meet 
the requirements under the leverage ratio 
framework on a consolidated basis, such 
as Barclays Bank UK PLC, to also meet the 
requirements on a sub-consolidated basis. 
The PRA has also recently announced that 
the systemic risk buffer will be incorporated 
in the calculation of banks' stress test hurdle 
rates, which are the target capital ratios set 
by the regulator, with a view to capturing 
domestic systemic importance as well as 
global systemic importance. 

Final BCBS standards on securitisation 
have been implemented under EU law 
from 1 January 2019, with a one-year 
grandfathering period for existing transactions. 
Final BCBS standards on counterparty credit 
risk, leverage, large exposures and a Net 
Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) are being 
implemented under EU law via the Risk 
Reduction Measures package. The Risk 
Reduction Measures package also requires 
certain credit institutions or investment firms 
established in the EU with a common parent 
undertaking established outside the EU to 
establish an intermediate parent undertaking, 
authorised and established in, and subject 
to the supervision of, an EU member state. 

The BCBS's finalisation of Basel III, noted 
above, among other things, eliminated 
model-based approaches for certain categories 
of risk weighted assets (RWAs), (for example, 
operational risk RWAs, CVA volatility and 
credit risk RWAs for equity exposures), revised 
the standardised approach's risk weights for 
a variety of exposure categories, replaced the 
four current approaches for operational risk 
(including the advanced measurement 
approach) with a single standardised 
measurement approach, established 72.5% 
of standardised approach RWAs for exposure 
categories as a floor for RWAs calculated 
under advanced approaches (referred to as 
the ‘output floor'), and for G-SIBs introduced 

<Page End><Page Start>
218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

a leverage ratio buffer in an amount equal to 
50% of the applicable G-SIB buffer used for 
RWA purposes (meaning, for Barclays Group, 
a leverage ratio buffer of 0.75%). The majority 
of the final Basel III changes are expected to 
be implemented commencing 1 January 2022, 
with a five-year phase-in period for the 
output floor. The new market risk framework, 
including rules made as a result of the 
‘fundamental review of the trading book', 
is also expected to be implemented from 
1 January 2022 (with a potential transitional 
period until 1 January 2023), following a 
recalibration of the requirements agreed in 
January 2019. Precise implementation details 
will be confirmed once the finalised Basel III 
requirements are transposed into national 
and EU law in the jurisdictions where Barclays 
Group operates.

IFRS 9 (an accounting standard that covers 
accounting for financial instruments) came 
into force under EU law on 1 January 2018. 
A separate EU regulation has provided 
transitional arrangements for mitigating the 
impact of the introduction of IFRS 9, largely 
in relation to CET1 capital arising from the 
expected credit loss accounting measures 
set out in IFRS 9. The BCBS is continuing to 
assess whether permanent changes to the 
recognition of expected credit loss provisions 
in regulatory capital are necessary, as well 
as any corresponding changes to the 
risk-weighting framework.

In the US, BUSL and Barclays Bank PLC's US 
branches are subject to enhanced prudential 
supervision requirements as required by the 
DFA and described above in ‘Supervision in 
the US'. 

In addition to prudential regulations already 
promulgated under the DFA, the FRB has 
issued proposed regulations for NSFR 
implementation. The NSFR, as originally 
proposed by the FRB and other US regulatory 
agencies, would have applied to US bank 
holding companies with more than $250bn 
in total assets or $10bn or more in on-balance 
sheet foreign exposures, including BUSL, 
and consolidated depositary institution 
subsidiaries of such banking organisations 
with more than $10bn in assets, including 
Barclays Bank Delaware. Under the proposed 
rule, such entities would be required to 
maintain a minimum level of available stable 
funding that equals or exceeds the amount 
of required stable funding over a one-year 
period. In October 2018, the FRB and other 
US regulatory agencies released proposals 
to tailor the applicability of prudential 
requirements, including the proposed NSFR, 
for large domestic US banking organisations. 
The FRB has stated that it is working to 
develop a separate proposal relating to the 
application of prudential requirements to 
foreign banks, including Barclays Group. 
Although the NSFR proposal provided for 
an effective date of 1 January 2018, the FRB 
has not finalised its NSFR proposal and the 
schedule for finalisation is uncertain.

In June 2018, the FRB finalised rules regarding 
single counterparty credit limit (SCCL). 
The SCCL applies single counterparty 
credit limits to the largest US bank holding 
companies (BHCs) and foreign banks' 
(including Barclays Group) US operations. 
The SCCL creates two separate limits for 
foreign banks, the first on combined US 
operations (CUSO) and the second on the 
US intermediate holding company (BUSL). 
The SCCL requires that no counterparty 
of BUSL can exceed 25% of BUSL's total 
regulatory capital plus the balance of its 
allowance for loan and lease losses not 
included in Tier 2 capital. With respect to 
the CUSO, the SCCL rule allows foreign 
banks to comply with the rule by certifying 
to the Federal Reserve that they comply 
with comparable home country regulation.

Stress testing 
Barclays Group and certain of its members are 
subject to supervisory stress testing exercises 
in a number of jurisdictions. These exercises 
currently include the annual stress testing 
programmes of the BoE and the FRB and the 
biennial stress testing programme of the EBA. 
These exercises are designed to assess the 
resilience of banks to adverse economic or 
financial developments and ensure that they 
have robust, forward-looking capital planning 
processes that account for the risks associated 
with their business profile. Assessment 
by regulators is on both a quantitative 
and qualitative basis, the latter focusing on 
Barclays Group's data provision, stress testing 
capability including model risk management 
and internal management processes and 
controls. Failure to meet requirements of 
regulatory stress tests, or the failure by 
regulators to approve the stress test results 
and capital plans of Barclays Group or its 
members subject to these exercises, could 
result in Barclays Group or certain of its 
members being required to enhance its capital 
position or limit capital distributions, to any 
external holders of its equity or capital or 
within Barclays Group.

In the US, BUSL participates in the FRB's 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
(CCAR) process. In June 2018, the FRB issued 
its first public CCAR assessment of BUSL. 
The 2018 results indicated BUSL's capital 
ratios would remain above all regulatory 
minimum required levels and the FRB did 
not object to BUSL's capital plan on either 
a quantitative or qualitative basis. 

In April 2018, the FRB proposed to amend 
its CCAR process to combine the CCAR 
quantitative assessment and the buffer 
requirements in the FRB's capital adequacy 
rules to create a single integrated capital 
requirement.

(b) Recovery and Resolution 
Stabilisation and resolution framework 
An important component of the EU legislative 
framework is the 2014 Bank Recovery and 
Resolution Directive (BRRD) which establishes 
a framework for the recovery and resolution 
of EU credit institutions and investment firms. 

The UK implemented the BRRD through the 
Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2014, 
which amended the Banking Act 2009 
(the Banking Act) and the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), and the Banks 
and Building Societies (Depositor Preference 
and Priorities) Order 2014, which amended 
the Insolvency Act 1986 (among other 
insolvency legislation).

In November 2016, the European Commission 
proposed a package of amendments to the 
BRRD, including the introduction of two new 
moratorium tools. Political agreement on 
this package was reached in December 2018. 
On 28 December 2017, an EU directive came 
into force harmonising the priority ranking 
of unsecured debt instruments under national 
insolvency laws. All member states were 
required to transpose the directive by 
29 December 2018 and it has been transposed 
into national law in the UK under the Banks 
and Building Societies (Priorities on 
Insolvency) Order 2018. 

Under the Banking Act, UK resolution 
authorities are empowered to intervene 
in and resolve a UK financial institution that 
is no longer viable. Pursuant to these laws, 
the BoE (in consultation with the PRA and 
HM Treasury as appropriate) has several 
stabilisation options where a banking 
institution is failing or likely to fail: (i) transfer 
some or all of the securities or business of the 
bank to a commercial purchaser; (ii) transfer 
some or all of the property, rights and liabilities 
of the bank to a ‘bridge bank' wholly owned 
by the BoE or to a commercial purchaser; 
(iii) transfer the impaired or problem assets to 
an asset management vehicle to allow them 
to be managed over time; (iv) cancel or reduce 
certain liabilities of the institution or convert 
liabilities to equity to absorb losses and 
recapitalise the institution; and (v) transfer 
the banking institution into temporary public 
ownership. In addition, the BoE may apply for 
a court insolvency order in order to wind up 
or liquidate the institution or to put the 
institution into special administration. When 
exercising any of its stabilisation powers, the 
BoE must generally provide that shareholders 
bear first losses, followed by creditors in 
accordance with the priority of their claims 
under normal insolvency proceedings. 

In order to enable the exercise of its 
stabilisation powers, the BoE may impose 
a temporary stay on the rights of creditors 
to terminate, accelerate or close out contracts, 
and in some cases to override events of 
default or termination rights that might 
otherwise be invoked as a result of a resolution 
action. In addition, the Banking Act gives the 
BoE the power to override, vary, or impose 
conditions or contractual obligations between 
a UK bank, its holding company and its group 
undertakings, in order to enable any transferee 
or successor bank to operate effectively after 
any of the resolution tools have been applied. 
There is also power for HM Treasury to amend 
the law (excluding provisions made by or 
under the Banking Act) for the purpose of 
enabling it to use its powers under this regime 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 219

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

effectively, potentially with retrospective effect. 
The Banking Act powers apply regardless of 
any contractual restrictions and compensation 
that may be payable. 

The BoE's preferred approach for the 
resolution of Barclays Group is a bail-in 
strategy with a single point of entry at 
Barclays PLC. Under such a strategy, Barclays 
PLC's subsidiaries would remain operational 
while Barclays PLC's eligible liabilities would 
be written down or converted to equity in 
order to recapitalise Barclays Group and allow 
for the continued provision of services and 
operations throughout the resolution.

In July 2016, the PRA issued final rules on 
ensuring operational continuity in resolution. 
The rules apply from 1 January 2019 and 
require banks to ensure that their operational 
structures facilitate effective recovery and 
resolution planning and the continued 
provision of functions critical to the economy 
in a resolution scenario. 

In June 2018, the BoE finalised its policy 
on Minimum Requirement for own funds 
and Eligible Liabilities (MREL) for UK banks 
and published indicative MREL levels for UK 
G-SIBs and D-SIBs, including Barclays Group, 
to be reached in 2019, 2020 and 2022 
(see section on TLAC/ MREL below).

Additionally, the BoE finalised its policy 
on Valuations in Resolution in June 2018 
with an expected compliance timeline 
of 1 January 2021.

The PRA has made rules that require 
authorised firms to draw up recovery plans 
and resolution packs, as required by the BRRD. 
Recovery plans are designed to outline 
credible actions that authorised firms could 
implement in the event of severe stress 
in order to restore their business to a stable 
and sustainable condition. 

The resolution pack contains detailed 
information on the group, and its significant 
legal entities which will be used to develop 
resolution strategies for that firm, assess 
its current level of resolvability against the 
strategy, and to inform work on identifying 
barriers to the implementation of operational 
resolution plans. In the UK, recovery and 
resolution planning (RRP) work is considered 
part of continuing supervision. Removal of 
potential impediments to an orderly resolution 
of Barclays Group or one or more of its 
subsidiaries is considered as part of the BoE's 
and PRA's supervisory strategy for each firm, 
and the PRA can require firms to make 
significant changes in order to enhance 
resolvability. Barclays Group currently provides 
the PRA with a recovery plan annually and 
with a resolution pack as requested. 

In December 2018, the BoE and PRA released 
a package of consultations setting out how 
they propose to increase transparency and 
accountability and clarify the responsibilities 
on firms with regards to resolution. The 
package comprises three main components: 
(i) a BoE Consultation Paper (CP) which 
proposes how the BoE, as resolution authority, 

intends to assess individual banks' 
resolvability; (ii) a PRA CP which contains 
proposed requirements for banks to assess 
their preparations for resolution, identifying 
any risks to implementation and their plans 
to address these; and (iii) proposals for future 
public disclosures.

The final policy will apply to Barclays Group 
when published.

While regulators in many jurisdictions have 
indicated a preference for single point of entry 
resolution, additional resolution or bankruptcy 
provisions may apply to certain of Barclays 
Bank PLC's subsidiaries or branches. In the US, 
Title II of the DFA established the Orderly 
Liquidation Authority, a regime for the orderly 
liquidation of systemically important financial 
institutions, which could apply to BUSL. 
Specifically, when a systemically important 
financial institution is in default or in danger of 
default, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver 
under the Orderly Liquidation Authority 
instead of the institution being resolved 
through a voluntary or involuntary proceeding 
under the US Bankruptcy Code. In certain 
circumstances, including insolvency, violations 
of law and unsafe business practices, the 
licensing authorities of each US branch of 
Barclays Bank PLC and of Barclays Bank 
Delaware have the authority to take possession 
of the business and property of the applicable 
Barclays Group entity they license or to revoke 
or suspend such licence. Specific resolution 
regimes may apply to certain Barclays Group 
entities or branches in other jurisdictions in 
which Barclays Group does business. 

In the US, Title I of the DFA and the 
implementing regulations issued by the 
FRB and the FDIC require each bank holding 
company with assets of $50bn or more, 
including those within Barclays Group, to 
prepare and submit a plan for the orderly 
resolution of subsidiaries and operations in 
the event of future material financial distress 
or failure. Barclays Group submitted its US 
Resolution Plan in respect of its US operations 
on 1 July 2018. Barclays Group's next 
submission of the US Resolution Plan in 
respect of its US operations will be due on 
1 July 2020. 

Barclays Group's 2018 US Resolution Plan 
in respect of its US operations included two 
strategies. The first is the global preferred 
resolution strategy, which is the BoE's 
preferred resolution strategy of single point 
of entry with bail-in at Barclays PLC. The 2018 
US Resolution Plan also included a US-specific 
resolution strategy, which would involve a 
single-point-of-entry resolution of Barclays 
Group's US operations with only BUSL entering 
bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. 
The US-specific resolution strategy is intended 
as an additional option in case the global 
preferred resolution strategy is not successful.

In Ireland, as a result of the transfer of Barclays 
Group's European businesses to Barclays Bank 
Ireland PLC, that entity has been designated 
by the ECB as a significant institution coming 
under the direct supervision of the ECB for 

prudential supervisory purposes. As a 
significant institution, Barclays Bank Ireland 
PLC now faces the Single Resolution Board 
(SRB) as the Eurozone resolution authority. 
The ECB has required Barclays Bank Ireland 
PLC to submit a standalone BRRD compliant 
recovery plan on an annual basis. The SRB has 
the power to require data submissions specific 
to Barclays Bank Ireland PLC under powers 
conferred upon it by the BRRD and the Single 
Resolution Mechanism Regulation (SRMR). 
The SRB will exercise these powers to 
determine the optimal resolution strategy 
for Barclays Bank Ireland PLC in the context 
of the BoE's preferred resolution strategy of 
single point of entry with bail-in at Barclays 
PLC. The SRB also has the power under the 
BRRD and the SRMR to develop a resolution 
plan for Barclays Bank Ireland PLC.

TLAC and MREL 
The BRRD requires competent authorities 
to impose a Minimum Requirement for own 
funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL) on 
financial institutions to facilitate their orderly 
resolution without broader financial disruption 
or recourse to public funds. In November 2015, 
the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the 
loss-absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure 
that there is sufficient loss-absorbing and 
recapitalisation capacity available in resolution 
to implement an orderly resolution which 
minimises the impact on financial stability, 
ensures the continuity of critical functions 
and avoids exposing taxpayers to losses. 
To this end, the FSB has set a new minimum 
requirement for ‘total loss-absorbing capacity' 
(TLAC). As the TLAC standard requires a 
certain amount of those loss-absorbing 
resources to be committed to subsidiaries 
or sub-groups that are located in host 
jurisdictions and deemed material for the 
resolution of the G-SIB as a whole, the FSB 
published guiding principles on internal TLAC 
on 6 July 2017. These provide guidance on 
the size and composition of the internal TLAC 
requirement, cooperation and coordination 
between home and host authorities and the 
trigger mechanism for internal TLAC. 

The EU is implementing the TLAC standard 
(including internal TLAC) via the MREL 
requirement and the relevant amendments 
are contained in the Risk Reduction Measures 
package. Under the BoE's statement of policy 
on MREL, the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs 
as necessary to implement the TLAC standard 
and institution or group-specific MREL 
requirements will depend on the preferred 
resolution strategy for that institution or 
group. Internal MREL for operating subsidiaries 
will be scaled within a 75-90% range of the 
external requirement that would apply to 
the subsidiary if it were a resolution entity. 
The starting point for the scalar will be 90% 
for ring-fenced bank sub-groups.

The MREL requirements are being phased 
in as from 1 January 2019 and will be fully 
implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time 
G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated 
in the UK, including Barclays Group, will be 
required to meet an MREL equivalent to the 

<Page End><Page Start>
220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

higher of: (i) two times the sum of its Pillar 1 
and Pillar 2A requirements; or (ii) the higher 
of two times its leverage ratio or 6.75% of 
leverage exposures. However, the PRA plans 
to review the MREL calibration by the end 
of 2020, including assessing the proposal for 
Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may drive a 
different 1 January 2022 MREL requirement 
than currently proposed. In June 2018, 
the BoE published indicative MREL levels 
for UK G-SIBs, including Barclays Group, 
to be reached in 2020 and 2022.

Barclays Bank Ireland PLC is subject to the 
SRB's MREL policy, as issued in January 2019, 
in respect of the internal MREL that it will be 
required to issue to Barclays Bank Group. The 
SRB's MREL policy will be revised in the near 
future to reflect the implementation of the 
Risk Reduction Measures package in the EU. 
The SRB's current calibration of MREL is 
two times the sum of: (i) the firm's Pillar 1 
requirement; (ii) its Pillar 2 requirement; and 
(iii) its combined buffer requirement, minus 
125 basis points. The SRB's policy does not 
envisage the application of any scalar in 
respect of the internal MREL requirement. 

In October 2016, the BCBS published its 
final standard on the prudential treatment 
of banks' investments in TLAC instruments 
issued by other institutions, confirming that 
internationally active banks (both G-SIBs 
and non-G-SIBs) must deduct their holdings 
of TLAC instruments that do not otherwise 
qualify as regulatory capital from their own 
Tier 2 capital. Where the investing bank owns 
less than 10% of the issuing bank's common 
shares, TLAC holdings are to be deducted 
from Tier 2 capital only to the extent that they 
exceed 10% of the investing bank's common 
equity (or 5% for non-regulatory capital TLAC 
holdings). Below this threshold, holdings 
would instead be subjected to risk weighting. 
G-SIBs may only apply risk weighting to 
non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings by the 
5% threshold where those holdings are in the 
trading book and are sold within 30 business 
days. The EU's Risk Reduction Measures 
package requires firms to deduct external 
MREL holdings from equivalent MREL capital 
of the firm. 

In December 2016, the FRB issued final 
regulations for TLAC, which apply to BUSL 
commencing 1 January 2019. The FRB's final 
TLAC rule, while generally following the FSB 
term sheet, contains a number of provisions 
that are more restrictive. For example, the 
FRB's TLAC rule includes provisions that 
require BUSL (the Barclays IHC) to have: 
(i) a specified outstanding amount of eligible 
long-term debt; (ii) a specified outstanding 
amount of TLAC (consisting of common and 
preferred equity regulatory capital plus eligible 
long-term debt); and (iii) a specified common 
equity buffer. In addition, the FRB's TLAC rule 
would prohibit BUSL, for so long as Barclays 
Group's overall resolution plan treats BUSL 
as a non-resolution entity, from issuing TLAC 
to entities other than Barclays Group and its 
non-US subsidiaries. 

Bank Levy and FSCS
The BRRD requires EU member states to 
establish a pre-funded resolution financing 
arrangement with funding equal to 1% of 
covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to 
cover the costs of bank resolutions. Where 
the amount of such pre-funding is insufficient, 
the BRRD requires that EU member states 
raise subsequent contributions. The UK 
government raises both pre-funded and 
subsequent contributions that would be 
required were the pre-funded contributions 
not to cover costs or other expenses incurred 
by use of the resolution funds by way of a tax 
on the balance sheets of banks known as 
the ‘Bank Levy'.

In addition, the UK has a statutory 
compensation fund called the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), 
which is funded by way of annual levies on 
most financial services firms authorised under 
FSMA. The levies consist of a management 
expenses levy (which funds the costs of 
running the FSCS) and a compensation costs 
levy (which funds the costs incurred by the 
FSCS in paying compensation). 

Similar requirements, which include powers 
for competent authorities to adopt resolution 
measures, are in force or expected to come 
into force imminently in various other 
jurisdictions. These requirements will affect 
Barclays Group to the extent it has operations 
in a relevant jurisdiction. 

(c) Structural reform 
Recent developments in banking law and 
regulation in the UK have included legislation 
designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller 
deposit-taking businesses of large banks. 
The Financial Services (Banking Reform) 
Act 2013 put in place a framework for this 
ring-fencing and secondary legislation passed 
in 2014 elaborated on the operation and 
application of the ring-fence. Ring-fencing 
requires, among other things, the separation 
of the retail and smaller deposit-taking 
business activities of UK banks in the UK 
and branches of UK banks in the European 
Economic Area (EEA) into a legally distinct, 
operationally separate and economically 
independent entity, which is not permitted to 
undertake a range of activities. Ring-fencing 
rules have been published by the PRA, further 
determining how ring-fenced banks will be 
permitted to operate. Further rules published 
by the FCA set out the disclosures that 
non-ring-fenced banks are required to 
make to prospective account holders of 
non-ring-fenced banks who are individuals. 

In the EU, following the publishing of the 
Liikanen Report in October 2012, the European 
Commission adopted a legislative proposal 
for a regulation on structural measures to 
improve the resilience of EU banks in January 
2014. The reforms included ring-fencing of 
retail activities from risky trading activities and 
a ban on proprietary trading for certain banks. 
However, the legislative proposal was formally 
withdrawn in July 2018 as a result of the 
European Parliament and the Council of 
the EU failing to reach a political agreement.

US regulation places further substantive 
limits on the activities that may be conducted 
by banks and holding companies, including 
foreign banking organisations such as 
Barclays Group. The ‘Volcker Rule', which 
was part of the DFA and which came into 
effect in the US in 2015, prohibits banking 
entities from undertaking certain proprietary 
trading activities and limits such entities' 
ability to sponsor or invest in certain private 
equity funds and hedge funds (in each case 
broadly defined). As required by the rule, 
Barclays Group has developed and 
implemented an extensive compliance 
and monitoring programme addressing 
proprietary trading and covered fund 
activities (both inside and outside of the US). 
Proposed amendments to the Volcker Rule 
were published in the Federal Register in 
July 2018. The existing Volcker framework 
and implemented processes will remain 
unchanged until amendments to the 
regulations become effective. We do not 
expect any changes to the Volcker rule 
to be effective prior to Q4 2019.

(d) Market infrastructure regulation 
In recent years, regulators as well as 
global-standard setting bodies such 
as IOSCO have focused on improving 
transparency and reducing risk in markets, 
particularly risks related to over-the-counter 
(OTC) transactions. This focus has resulted 
in a variety of new regulations across the 
G20 countries and beyond that require 
or encourage on-venue trading, clearing, 
posting of margin and disclosure of 
information related to many derivatives 
transactions. Some of the most significant 
developments are described below. 

The European Market Infrastructure 
Regulation (EMIR) has introduced 
requirements designed to improve 
transparency and reduce the risks associated 
with the derivatives market, some of which 
are still to be fully implemented. EMIR requires 
that certain entities that enter into derivative 
contracts: report such transactions; clear 
certain over the counter (OTC) transactions 
where mandated to do so; and implement risk 
mitigation standards in respect of uncleared 
OTC trades. The obligation to clear derivatives 
only applies to certain counterparties and 
specified types of derivatives. In October 2016, 
the European Commission adopted a 
delegated regulation relating to the exchange 
of collateral, one of the risk mitigation 
techniques under EMIR. Provisions relating 
to initial margin have entered into force, 
subject to a phase-in until 1 September 2020. 
Provisions relating to variation margin have 
already entered into force. EMIR has potential 
operational and financial impacts on 
Barclays Group, including by imposing 
collateral requirements. 

The European Commission has recently 
proposed two sets of changes to EMIR, 
one containing technical changes to EMIR, 
and another measure which could result in 
certain central counterparties (CCPs) used 
by Barclays Group being forced to relocate 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 221

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

R
isk review

to an EU jurisdiction in order to continue 
clearing for EU members. The changes 
proposed may have additional operational 
and financial impacts on Barclays Group's 
derivatives business. 

CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying 
higher capital requirements for bilateral, 
uncleared OTC derivative trades. Lower capital 
requirements for cleared derivative trades are 
only available if the CCP through which the 
trade is cleared is recognised as a ‘qualifying 
central counterparty' (QCCP) which has been 
authorised or recognised under EMIR. Higher 
capital requirements may apply to Barclays 
Group following the UK's departure from the 
EU if UK CCPs are then no longer regarded 
as QCCPs and vice versa. 

The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
and Markets in Financial Instruments 
Regulation (collectively referred to as MiFID II) 
have largely been applicable since 3 January 
2018. MiFID II affects many of the investment 
markets in which Barclays Group operates, 
the instruments in which it trades and the 
way it transacts with market counterparties 
and other customers. Changes introduced 
by MiFID II include: the introduction of a 
new type of trading venue (the organised 
trading facility), capturing non-equity 
trading that falls outside the MiFID I regime; 
the strengthening of conduct of business 
requirements, including in relation to conflicts 
of interest; the expansion of the concept of, 
and requirements applicable to, firms which 
systematically trade against proprietary capital 
(systematic internalisers); and increased 
obligations on firms to secure best execution 
for their clients. Additionally, MiFID II 
mandates a trading obligation for certain 
types of cleared derivatives. 

MiFID II strengthens investor protections, 
imposes new curbs on high frequency 
and commodity trading, increases pre- 
and post-trade transparency reporting and 
introduces a new regime for third country 
(non-EU) firms. MiFID II also includes new 
requirements relating to non-discriminatory 
access to trading venues, CCPs and 
benchmarks, research unbundling and 
harmonised supervisory powers and sanctions 
across the EU. 

US regulators have imposed similar rules 
as the EU with respect to the mandatory 
on-venue trading and clearing of certain 
derivatives, and post-trade transparency, 
as well as in relation to the margining of 
OTC derivatives. 

US regulators have addressed the applicability 
of certain of their regulations to cross-border 
transactions, and are continuing to review 
and consider their rules with respect to their 
application on a cross-border basis, including 
with respect to their registration requirements 
in relation to non-US swap dealers and 
security-based swap dealers. The regulators 
may adopt further rules, or provide further 
guidance, regarding the cross-border 
applicability of such rules. In December 2017, 
the CFTC and the European Commission 

recognised the trading venues of each other's 
jurisdiction to allow market participants 
to comply with mandatory on-venue trading 
requirements while trading on certain venues 
recognised by the other jurisdiction. 

The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into 
force in June 2016. Although some provisions 
have applied since 2016, the majority of 
provisions have applied since 3 January 2018, 
subject to transitional provisions. This 
regulation applies to the administration, 
contribution of data to and use of benchmarks 
within the EU. Financial institutions within the 
EU will be prohibited from using benchmarks 
unless their administrators are authorised, 
registered or otherwise recognised in the EU. 
This may impact the ability of Barclays Group 
to use certain benchmarks in the future. For 
example, EURIBOR will, as currently stands, 
no longer be compliant with the Benchmarks 
Regulation on 1 January 2020, and the FCA has 
stated that it does not intend to support LIBOR 
after the end of 2021. International initiatives 
are therefore underway to develop alternative 
benchmarks and backstop arrangements. 
However, adapting processes and systems 
to transition to these new benchmarks is likely 
to be a very time-consuming and costly task 
on an industry-wide basis.

In 2015, the European Commission launched 
work on establishing a Capital Markets 
Union (CMU) within the EU. The CMU aims 
to increase the availability of non-bank 
financing in the EU, deepen the EU single 
market for financial services and promote 
growth and financial stability. The CMU work 
programme is now being considered in light 
of Brexit. Recent proposals have therefore 
included considerably broadened central 
supervisory powers for the European 
Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) (including in 
relation to outsourcing, and delegation and 
risk transfer by entities authorised in the EU 
to entities or branches in third countries) 
and an increased focus by the ESAs on 
ongoing equivalence assessments in the 
context of third country regimes in various 
EU regulations and directives. 

Certain participants in US swap markets are 
required to register with the CFTC as ‘swap 
dealers' or ‘major swap participants' and/or, 
following the compliance date for relevant 
SEC rules, with the SEC as ‘security-based 
swap dealers' or ‘major security-based swap 
participants'. Such registrants are subject to 
CFTC, and would be subject to SEC, regulation 
and oversight. Entities required to register as 
swap dealers are subject to business conduct, 
record keeping and reporting requirements 
under CFTC rules and will be subject to capital 
and margin requirements in connection with 
transactions with certain US and non-US 
counterparties. Barclays Bank PLC has 
provisionally registered with the CFTC as 
a swap dealer and is subject to CFTC rules 
on business conduct, record keeping and 
reporting. With respect to margin and capital, 
Barclays Group is subject to the rules of 
the FRB in connection with its swap 
dealer business.

The CFTC has approved certain comparability 
determinations that permit substituted 
compliance with non-US regulatory regimes 
for certain swap regulations related to 
business conduct and other requirements, 
while other determinations remain pending. 
Substituted compliance is permitted, where 
applicable, only with respect to transactions 
between a non-US swap dealer and a non-US 
counterparty. In addition, the CFTC has issued 
proposed rules that would require a non-US 
swap dealer to comply with certain CFTC 
rules in connection with transactions that are 
‘arranged, negotiated or executed' from the 
US. It is unclear whether the proposed rules 
will be adopted in the form proposed. Most 
recently, in October 2017, the CFTC issued 
an order permitting substituted compliance 
with EU margin rules for certain uncleared 
derivatives. However, as Barclays Group is 
subject to the margin rules of the FRB, it will 
not benefit from the CFTC's action unless 
the FRB takes a similar approach. 

It is unclear whether further changes will 
be made to the CFTC's proposed rules or 
when they will become effective. In addition, 
it is uncertain whether, and to what degree, 
other US regulators, such as the FRB, will take 
an approach similar to the CFTC's regarding 
substituted compliance. 

The SEC finalised the rules governing security 
based swap dealer registration in 2015 but 
clarified that registration timing is contingent 
upon the finalisation of certain additional rules 
under Title VII of DFA, several of which are 
still pending. In particular, the SEC has stated 
that registration will be required at the later 
of the SEC's adoption of final rules on capital 
and margin, or the compliance dates for the 
SEC's rules on record keeping and reporting, 
business conduct or employment of statutorily 
disqualified persons. 

Therefore, there is currently no specific 
timetable for the effectiveness of the 
security-based swap dealer registration 
requirement. However, the SEC has recently 
proposed additional rules, and republished 
prior proposed rules, regarding security-based 
swap dealers, and has indicated that it 
may take the actions that will trigger the 
registration requirement in the near future.

When security-based swap dealer registration 
is required, it is anticipated that Barclays Bank 
PLC and/or one or more of its affiliates will be 
required to register in that capacity and thus 
will be required to comply with the SEC's rules 
for security-based swap dealers. These rules 
may impose costs and other requirements 
or restrictions that could impact our business. 
In addition, the SEC has provided some limited 
guidance regarding certain aspects of the 
cross-border applicability of its security-based 
swaps rules, including a final rule addressing 
transactions of a non-US person arranged, 
negotiated, or executed by personnel located 
in a US branch or office. However, it remains 
unclear as to how or when substituted 
compliance may be available, and which 
of the SEC's rules will be eligible.

<Page End><Page Start>
222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Supervision and regulation
Risk review

(e) Conduct, culture and other regulation 
Conduct and culture 
On 7 March 2016, the PRA and FCA 
introduced measures to increase the 
individual accountability of senior managers 
and other covered individuals in the banking 
sector. The new regime comprises: the 
‘Senior Managers Regime', which applies to 
a limited number of individuals with senior 
management responsibilities within a firm; 
the ‘Certification Regime', which is intended 
to assess and monitor the fitness and 
propriety of a wider range of employees who 
could pose a risk of significant harm to the 
firm or its customers; and conduct rules that 
individuals subject to either regime must 
comply with. From March 2017, the conduct 
rules have applied more widely to other 
staff of firms within the scope of the regime. 
The regime will be expanded to apply to 
all firms authorised under FSMA from 
9 December 2019. The Financial Services Act 
2010, among other things, requires the UK 
regulators to make rules about remuneration 
and to require regulated firms to have a 
remuneration policy that is consistent with 
effective risk management. 

The Banking Act also amended FSMA to 
allow the FCA to make rules requiring firms 
to operate a collective consumer redress 
scheme to deal with cases of widespread 
failure by regulated firms to meet regulatory 
requirements that may have created 
consumer detriment. 

Our regulators have also enhanced their 
focus on the promotion of cultural values as 
a key area for banks, although they generally 
view the responsibility for reforming culture 
as primarily sitting with the industry. 

Strategic review of retail banking 
business models
The FCA conducted a strategic review of 
retail banking business models throughout 
2017 and 2018 and published its final report 
in December 2018. The FCA has used the 
analysis to inform its view of emerging 
scenarios in retail banking and their impact on 
business models and consumers. It concluded 
that increased competition has the scope to 
improve outcomes for many consumers but 
it takes time. As a result of this review the 
FCA will initiate work in payment services, 
SME banking and monitoring of retail banking 
business models which could impact 
Barclays Group over time.

Data protection and PSD2 
Most countries in which Barclays Group has a 
presence already have privacy laws governing 
the collection, use and disclosure of personal 
data, or are considering their introduction. 
The harmonisation of the European privacy 
regime through the introduction of the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
was a major focus in 2018. However, new 
laws have also recently been introduced in 
California, the Cayman Islands, and Brazil, 
and existing laws in Japan, Guernsey, Jersey 
and the Isle of Man have been updated. 
The global nature of our business and IT 
infrastructure means personal information 

may be made available or stored in countries 
other than where it was originally collected. 
The proper handling and protection of 
personal data is very important to our clients, 
employees and to regulators, and there can 
be considerable regulatory fines for breaches 
(for example, up to 4% of global turnover 
under GDPR). 

A number of recent developments have 
indicated a clear political and regulatory desire 
to make customer account information and 
transactional services more easily accessible 
to customers and parties providing services 
to them, such as the revised Payment Services 
Directive (PSD2) and the Open Banking 
initiative. PSD2 replaced the previous Payment 
Services Directive and, with respect to certain 
requirements, has a wider scope, applying 
transparency and information requirements 
to payment transactions in all currencies 
where the provider of at least one leg of the 
payment service is located in the EU. PSD2 
also requires banks which provide accounts 
to enable access to those accounts through 
dedicated technology to allow third parties 
to provide account information and payment 
initiation services. The requirements relating 
to this technology will come into effect in 
September 2019.

Cybersecurity and operational resilience 
Regulators in Europe and the US have been 
increasingly focused on cybersecurity risk 
management and operational resilience 
for banking organisations. This has resulted 
in a number of proposed laws, regulations 
and other requirements that necessitate 
the implementation of a variety of increased 
controls and enhancement activities for 
regulated Barclays Group entities. These 
include, among others, the adoption of 
cybersecurity policies and procedures meeting 
specified criteria, minimum required security 
measures, controls and procedures for 
enhanced reporting and public disclosures, 
compliance certification requirements, and 
other cyber and information risk governance 
measures. These increased controls will 
enhance our security posture and increase 
our ability to protect the organisation and 
our customers. Such measures may result 
in increased technology and compliance 
costs for Barclays Group. 

Sanctions and financial crime 
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new 
form of corporate criminal liability focused 
broadly on a company's failure to prevent 
bribery on its behalf. The legislation has broad 
application and in certain circumstances 
may have extra-territorial impact on entities, 
persons or activities located outside the UK, 
including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. 
In practice, the legislation requires Barclays 
Group to have adequate procedures to 
prevent bribery which, due to the extra-
territorial nature of the status, makes this 
both complex and costly. 

On 30 September 2017, the Criminal Finances 
Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal 
offences of failing to prevent the facilitation 
of UK and overseas tax evasion. The legislation 

has very broad extra-territorial application 
and may impact entities, persons or activities 
located outside the UK, including Barclays PLC 
and its subsidiaries. It also requires Barclays 
Group to have reasonable prevention 
procedures in place to prevent the criminal 
facilitation of tax evasion by persons acting 
for, or on behalf of, Barclays Group. 

In the US, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA 
PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations thereunder 
contain numerous anti-money laundering 
and anti-terrorist financing requirements 
for financial institutions. In addition, 
Barclays Group is subject to the US Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits certain 
payments to foreign officials, as well as 
rules and regulations relating to economic 
sanctions and embargo programmes 
administered by the US Office of Foreign 
Assets Control which restrict certain business 
activities with certain individuals, entities, 
groups, countries and territories. 

Two significant new regulatory rules came 
into force in the US in 2018: the New York 
Department of Financial Services (DFS) 
Rule 504 and the US Department of Treasury's 
Financial Crime Enforcement Network 
(FinCEN) Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Rule. 
Rule 504 enumerates detailed transaction 
filtering and screening requirements for 
potential Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money 
laundering violations and transactions with 
sanctioned entities, applicable to institutions 
regulated by the DFS (including Barclays Bank 
PLC, New York branch) and requires a 
senior bank official to certify compliance. 
The CDD Rule requires Barclays Group US 
entities to identify natural beneficial owners 
above a certain threshold for clients that are 
legal entities. 

In some cases, US state and federal regulations 
addressing sanctions, money laundering and 
other financial crimes may impact entities, 
persons or activities located outside the US, 
including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. 
The enforcement of these regulations has 
been a major focus of US state and federal 
government policy relating to financial 
institutions in recent years, and failure of 
a financial institution to ensure compliance 
could have serious legal, financial and 
reputational consequences for the institution.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 223

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Financial review

Financial review Page
 ■■ Key performance indicators 224

■■ Consolidated summary income statement 226
■■ Income statement commentary 227
■■ Consolidated summary balance sheet 228
■■ Balance sheet commentary 229
■■ Analysis of results by business 230
■■ Margins and balances 240
■■ Non-IFRS performance measures 241

A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key 
performance indicators, and the contribution of each of our 
businesses to the overall performance of the Barclays Group.

<Page End><Page Start>
224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Key performance indicators

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays' management believes that the 
non-IFRS performance measures included 
in this document provide valuable information 
to the readers of the financial statements as 
they enable the reader to identify a more 
consistent basis for comparing the businesses' 
performance between financial periods, and 
provide more detail concerning the elements 

of performance which the managers of these 
businesses are most directly able to influence 
or are relevant for an assessment of the 
Barclays Group. They also reflect an important 
aspect of the way in which operating targets 
are defined and performance is monitored by 
Barclays' management. However, any non-IFRS 
performance measures in this document are 
not a substitute for IFRS measures and readers 

should consider the IFRS measures as 
well. Refer to pages 241 to 245 for further 
information and calculations of non-IFRS 
performance measures included throughout 
this section, and the most directly 
comparable IFRS measures.

Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio
Capital requirements are part of the 
regulatory framework governing how banks 
and depository institutions are supervised. 
Capital ratios express a bank's capital as a 
percentage of its RWAs as defined by the PRA.

CET1 ratio is a measure of capital that is 
predominantly common equity as defined 
by the CRR.

The Barclays Group's capital management 
objective is to maximise shareholder value by 
prudently managing the level and mix of its 
capital to: ensure the Barclays Group and all 
of its subsidiaries are appropriately capitalised 
relative to their regulatory minimum and 
stressed capital requirements, support the 
Barclays Group's risk appetite, growth and 
strategic options, while seeking to maintain 
a robust credit proposition for Barclays Group 
and its subsidiaries.

The Barclays Group's CET1 ratio continued 
to be at the end-state target of c.13%. 
The ratio decreased to 13.2% (2017: 13.3%), 
as CET1 capital decreased to £41.1bn and 
RWAs remained broadly stable at £311.9bn, 
as underlying profit generation of £4.2bn, 
was more than offset by £2.1bn of litigation 
and conduct charges, as Barclays Group 
resolved legacy matters, £1.7bn for ordinary 
dividends and AT1 coupons paid and 
foreseen and £1.0bn from the redemption 
of capital instruments.

Barclays Group target: CET1 ratio of c.13%.

CET1 ratio 

13.2%
2017: 13.3%
2016: 12.4%

Average UK leverage ratio
The ratio is calculated as the average 
transitional Tier 1 capital divided by 
average UK leverage exposure. The average 
exposure measure excludes qualifying 
central bank claims.

The leverage ratio is non-risk based and is 
intended to act as a supplementary measure 
to the risk-based capital metrics such as 
the CET1 ratio.

The average UK leverage ratio decreased 
to 4.5% (2017: 4.9%) driven by an increase 
in average UK leverage exposure to £1,110bn 
(2017: £1,045bn) and a decrease in average 
Tier 1 capital to £50.5bn (2017: £51.2bn).

The average UK leverage exposure increased, 
including securities financing transactions, 
due to the efficient use of leverage balance 
sheet within high returning financing 
businesses. Tier 1 capital reduced for the 
same reasons as CET1 capital. 

Barclays Group target: maintaining the UK 
leverage ratio above the expected end point 
minimum requirement. 

Average UK leverage ratio

4.5%
2017: 4.9%
2016: 4.5%

In assessing the financial performance of the Group, management uses a range of KPIs 
which focus on the Group's financial strength, the delivery of sustainable returns and cost 
management. Barclays is on track in the execution of its strategy and continues to target 
RoTE of greater than 9% in 2019 and greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation and 
conduct, based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%, and operating expenses guidance in the range 
of £13.6-13.9bn in 2019, excluding litigation and conduct.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 225

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Definition Why is it important and how the Group performed

Return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity
RoTE is calculated as profit after tax 
attributable to ordinary shareholders, including 
an adjustment for the tax credit recorded in 
reserves in respect of other equity instruments, 
as a proportion of average shareholders' 
equity excluding non-controlling interests 
and other equity instruments adjusted for the 
deduction of intangible assets and goodwill.

This measure indicates the return generated 
by the management of the business 
based on shareholders' tangible equity. 
Achieving a target RoTE demonstrates the 
organisation's ability to execute its strategy 
and align management's interests with 
the shareholders'. RoTE lies at the heart 
of the Barclays Group's capital allocation 
and performance management process. 

RoTE for the Barclays Group excluding 
litigation and conduct, was 8.5%. Based on a 
CET1 ratio of 13% this would have been 8.3%.

RoTE for the Barclays Group was positive 
3.6% (2017: negative 3.6%) reflecting an 
attributable profit of £1,394m (2017: loss 
of £1,922m) which included charges for 
litigation and conduct of £2.1bn, relating 
to RMBS settlement and PPI provisions.

Barclays Group target: Barclays Group RoTE, 
excluding litigation and conduct, of greater 
than 9% in 2019 and greater than 10% 
in 2020, based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%.

Barclays Group RoTE  
excluding litigation and conduct

8.5%
2017: (1.2%)
2016: 6.2%

Barclays Group RoTE 

3.6%
2017: (3.6%)
2016: 3.6% 

Operating expenses
Operating expenses excluding litigation and 
conduct. 

Barclays views operating expenses as a key 
strategic area for banks; those who actively 
manage costs and control them effectively 
will gain a strong competitive advantage.

Barclays Group operating expenses 
were £13.9bn, in line with 2018 guidance, 
after excluding a charge for GMP while 
total operating expenses were £16.2bn 
(2017: £15.5bn). 

Barclays Group target: operating expenses, 
excluding litigation and conduct, of £13.6 
to 13.9bn in 2019.

Operating expensesa

£13.9bn
2017: £14.2bn
2016: £15.0bn

Cost: income ratio 
Total operating expenses divided by  
total income.

This is a measure management uses to assess 
the productivity of the business operations. 
Managing the cost base is a key execution 
priority for management and includes 
a review of all categories of discretionary 
spending and an analysis of how we can 
run the business to ensure that costs increase 
at a slower rate than income.

The Barclays Group cost: income ratio 
including litigation and conduct increased 
to 77% (2017: 73%) due to stable income 
and a 5% increase in total operating expenses, 
which included charges for RMBS settlement 
and PPI provisions.

Excluding litigation and conduct the Barclays 
Group cost: income ratio decreased to 66% 
(2017: 68%) as continued investment to grow 
the business and improve future operating 
efficiency was more than offset by elimination 
of legacy costs, productivity savings and 
a lower bank levy charge. 

Barclays Group target: a cost: income ratio 
of below 60% over time.

Cost: income ratio 

77%
2017: 73%
2016: 76%

Cost: income ratio  
excluding litigation and conduct

66%
2017: 68%
2016: 70%

Note
a Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct, and a GMP charge of £140m.

<Page End><Page Start>
226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
2015

£m
2014

£m

Continuing operations
Net interest income 9,062 9,845 10,537 10,608 10,086
Net fee, commission and other income 12,074 11,231 10,914 11,432 11,677
Total income 21,136 21,076 21,451 22,040 21,763

Credit impairment charges and other provisions (1,468) (2,336) (2,373) (1,762) (1,821)

Operating costs (13,627) (13,884) (14,565) (13,723) (14,959)
UK bank levy (269) (365) (410) (426) (418)
Operating expenses (13,896) (14,249) (14,975) (14,149) (15,377)
GMP charge (140) – – – –
Litigation and conduct (2,207) (1,207) (1,363) (4,387) (2,807)
Total operating expenses (16,243) (15,456) (16,338) (18,536) (18,184)

Other net income/(expenses) 69 257 490 (596) (445)

Profit before tax 3,494 3,541 3,230 1,146 1,313
Tax charge (1,122) (2,240) (993) (1,149) (1,121)
Profit/(loss) after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,372 1,301 2,237 (3) 192
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation – (2,195) 591 626 653
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations (226) (249) (346) (348) (449)
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operation – (140) (402) (324) (320)
Other equity instrument holdersa (752) (639) (457) (345) (250)
Attributable profit/(loss) 1,394 (1,922) 1,623 (394) (174)

Selected financial statistics
Basic earnings/(loss) per sharea 9.4p (10.3p) 10.4p (1.9p) (0.7p)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per sharea 9.2p (10.1p) 10.3p (1.9p) (0.7p)
Return on average tangible shareholders' equitya 3.6% (3.6%) 3.6% (0.7%) (0.3%)
Cost: income ratio 77% 73% 76% 84% 84%

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductb

Profit before tax 5,701 4,748 4,593 5,533 4,120
Attributable profit/(loss) 3,530 (772) 2,908 3,570 2,326
Return on average tangible shareholders' equity 8.5% (1.2%) 6.2% 7.6% 4.9%
Cost: income ratio 66% 68% 70% 64% 71%

Notes
a The profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders of £752m (2017: £639m) is offset by a tax credit recorded in reserves of £203m (2017: £174m). The net amount 

of £549m (2017: £465m), along with non-controlling interests, is deducted from profit after tax in order to calculate earnings per share and return on average tangible 
shareholders' equity.

b Refer to pages 241 to 245 for further information and calculations of performance measures excluding litigation and conduct.

The financial information above is extracted from the published accounts. This information should be read together with the information included 
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Consolidated summary income statement

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 227

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Financial review

2018 compared to 2017
Profit before tax was £3,494m (2017: 
£3,541m). Excluding litigation and conduct 
charges, profit before tax increased 20% 
to £5,701m driven by an improvement in 
credit impairment charges and a reduction 
in operating expenses. The 3% depreciation 
of average USD against GBP adversely 
impacted profits.

Total income was £21,136m (2017: £21,076m). 
Barclays UK income was stable as lower 
interest margins were offset by strong balance 
sheet growth. Barclays International income 
growth in Markets, which increased 9%, 
was offset by lower Banking income, primarily 
from a 20% decrease in Corporate lending 
income reflecting the strategy of redeploying 
RWAs to higher returning businesses. 
Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
growth was offset by the non-recurrence of 
prior year one-offs, from a US asset card sale 
and a valuation gain on Barclays' preference 
shares in Visa Inc. Head Office income was 
a net expense of £273m (2017: £159m), and 
the Group benefited from the non-recurrence 
of negative income associated with the 
former Non-Core division, which was closed 
on 1 July 2017.

Credit impairment charges decreased 37% 
to £1,468m primarily driven by single name 
recoveries, updates to consensus-based 
macroeconomic forecasts in the UK and US 
during the year, the non-recurrence of single 
name charges in 2017, portfolio adjustments 
as IFRS 9 has continued to embed and the 
prudent management of credit risk, including 
the impact of repositioning the US Cards 
portfolio towards a lower risk mix. This 
decrease was partially offset by a Q4 2018 
£150m specific charge for the impact of the 
anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK. 
The Barclays Group loan loss rate was 44bps 
(2017: 57bps).

Operating expenses of £13,896m (2017: 
£14,249m) reduced 2% as continued 
investment to grow the business and improve 
future operating efficiency was more than 
offset by elimination of legacy costs, 
productivity savings and a lower bank levy 
charge due to a reduction in the levy rate 
and the impact of prior year adjustments. 
The cost: income ratio, excluding litigation 
and conduct, reduced to 66% (2017: 68%).

Total operating expenses of £16,243m 
(2017: £15,456m) included litigation and 
conduct charges of £2,207m (2017: £1,207m) 
and a £140m charge for GMP in relation to 
the equalisation of obligations for members of 
the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund (UKRF). 
There was no capital impact of the GMP 
charge as, at 31 December 2018, the UKRF 
remained in accounting surplus.

Other net income declined to £69m 
(2017: £257m) primarily reflecting the 
non-recurrence of gains on the sales of 
Barclays' share in VocaLink and a joint 
venture in Japan in Q2 2017.

The Group's effective tax rate reduced to 
32.1% (2017: 63.3%). This rate included a 
one-off net charge due to the remeasurement 
of DTAs as a result of the reduction in the 
US federal corporate income tax rate. 
The underlying effective tax rate was 20.9% 
(2017: 29.4%), due to the lower US federal 
corporate income tax rate and the beneficial 
impact of adjustments to prior periods 
recognised in 2018. 

The Group's underlying effective tax rate 
for future periods, is expected to be in the 
low-to-mid-20 per cents, excluding the  
impact of the future accounting change 
that will require tax relief on payments in 
relation to AT1 instruments to be recognised 
in the income statement, as opposed to 
retained earnings. 

Attributable profit was £1,394m (2017: loss of 
£1,922m). This reflected the non-recurrence 
of a £2.5bn loss related to the sell down of 
BAGL and a tax charge of £1,122m compared 
to a 2017 charge of £2,240m which included 
a one-off net charge of £0.9bn due to the 
remeasurement of US DTAs.

RoTE was 8.5% (2017: negative 1.2%) and 
earnings per share was 21.9p (2017: loss 
per share of 3.5p), excluding litigation and 
conduct. Statutory RoTE was 3.6% (2017: 
negative 3.6%) and basic earnings per share 
was 9.4p (2017: loss per share 10.3p). 

2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax increased 10% to £3,541m 
driven by a 5% reduction in operating 
expenses, partially offset by a 2% reduction 
in income and lower other net income. 
Results were impacted by the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP of 5% and 
7% respectively, compared to 2016, which 
positively impacted income and adversely 
affected impairment and operating expenses.

Following the closure of Barclays Non-Core 
on 1 July 2017, Group results for 2017 included 
a Barclays Non-Core loss before tax for the 
six months ended 30 June 2017 of £647m, 
compared to a loss before tax of £2,786m 
for the full year in 2016. From 1 July 2017, 
residual Barclays Non-Core assets and liabilities 
were reintegrated into, and associated financial 
performance subsequently reported in, 
Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
Head Office.

Total income decreased to £21,076m (2016: 
£21,451m) reflecting a £613m decrease in 
Barclays International and a £262m reduction 
in Head Office, partially offset by a reduction 
in losses related to Non-Core.

Credit impairment charges were broadly stable 
at £2,336m (2016: £2,373m) and reflected a 
charge of £168m in 2017 relating to deferred 
consideration from an asset sale in US Cards, 
and the non-recurrence of a £320m charge 
in 2016 following the management review 
of the UK and US Cards portfolio impairment 
modelling. Impairment increased in Barclays 
International driven by an increase in 
underlying delinquency trends and business 
growth in US Cards. The Group loan loss rate 
increased 4bps to 57bps.

Operating expenses reduced 5% to £15,456m 
driven primarily by lower Non-Core related 
operating expenses. Excluding litigation and 
conduct charges, Group operating expenses 
were £14.2bn, in line with 2017 guidance.

Other net income of £257m (2016: £490m) 
primarily reflected a gain of £109m on the sale 
of Barclays' share in VocaLink to MasterCard 
and a gain of £76m on the sale of a joint 
venture in Japan.

The effective tax rate on profit before tax 
increased to 63.3% (2016: 30.7%) principally 
due to a one-off tax charge of £1,177m due 
to the remeasurement of US DTAs as a result 
of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, partially 
offset by an unrelated £276m increase in 
US DTAs due to a remeasurement of 
Barclays Bank PLC's US branch DTAs.

Loss after tax in respect of the Africa Banking 
discontinued operation of £2,195m included 
a £1,090m impairment of Barclays' holding in 
BAGL and a £1,435m loss on the sale of 33.7% 
of BAGL's issued share capital, primarily due 
to recycling of currency translation reserve 
losses to the income statement on accounting 
deconsolidation.

RoTE was negative 3.6% (2016: positive 3.6%) 
and basic loss per share was 10.3p (2016: 
earnings per share of 10.4p). Excluding 
litigation and conduct, losses related to the 
sell down of BAGL and the one-off net charge 
due to the remeasurement of US DTAs, RoTE 
was 5.6% and earnings per share was 16.2p.

Income statement commentary

<Page End><Page Start>
228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

As at 31 December
2018

£m
2017a

£m
2016a

£m
2015a

£m
2014a

£m

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 171,082 102,353 49,711 39,695
Cash collateral and settlement balances 77,222 77,168 90,135 82,980 103,403
Loans and advances at amortised cost 326,406 324,048 345,900 357,586 366,475
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 2,308 12,546 13,454 28,187 131,753
Trading portfolio assets 104,187 113,760 80,240 77,348 114,717
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 149,648 116,281 78,608 76,830 38,300
Derivative financial instruments 222,538 237,669 346,626 327,709 439,909
Financial investments – 58,915 63,317 90,267 86,066
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 52,816 – – – – 
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale – 1,193 71,454 7,364 – 
Other assets 21,089 20,586 21,039 22,030 37,588
Total assets 1,133,283 1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost 394,838 398,701 390,744 390,307 384,105
Cash collateral and settlement balances 67,522 68,143 80,648 75,015 101,989
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowings 18,578 40,338 19,760 25,035 124,479
Debt securities in issueb 82,286 73,314 75,932 69,150 86,099
Subordinated liabilities 20,559 23,826 23,383 21,467 21,153
Trading portfolio liabilities 37,882 37,351 34,687 33,967 45,124
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 216,834 173,718 96,031 91,745 56,972
Derivative financial instruments 219,643 238,345 340,487 324,252 439,320
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale – – 65,292 5,997 – 
Other liabilities 11,362 13,496 14,797 17,213 32,707
Total liabilities 1,069,504 1,067,232 1,141,761 1,054,148 1,291,948
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 4,311 22,045 21,842 21,586 20,809
Other equity instruments 9,632 8,941 6,449 5,305 4,322
Other reserves 5,153 5,383 6,051 1,898 2,724
Retained earnings 43,460 27,536 30,531 31,021 31,712
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 62,556 63,905 64,873 59,810 59,567
Non-controlling interests 1,223 2,111 6,492 6,054 6,391
Total equity 63,779 66,016 71,365 65,864 65,958
Total liabilities and equity 1,133,283 1,133,248 1,213,126 1,120,012 1,357,906

Net asset value per ordinary share 309p 322p 344p 324p 335p
Tangible net asset value per share 262p 276p 290p 275p 285p
Number of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC (in millions) 17,133 17,060 16,963 16,805 16,498

Year-end USD exchange rate 1.28 1.35 1.23 1.48 1.56
Year-end EUR exchange rate 1.12 1.13 1.17 1.36 1.28

Notes
a Barclays introduced changes to the balance sheet presentation as at 31 December 2017 as a result of the adoption of new accounting policies on 1 January 2018. The comparatives 

for the prior years have been updated to reflect this presentation change. Further detail on the adoption of new accounting policies can be found in Note 1 on page 264 to 267, 
Note 42 on pages 347 to 354 and the Credit risk disclosures on pages 149 to 175. 

b Debt securities in issue include covered bonds of £8.5bn (2017: £12.4bn).

Consolidated summary balance sheet

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 229

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Financial review

Total assets
Total assets remained flat at £1,133bn.

Cash and balances at central banks increased 
£6bn to £177bn, as cash contributed more to 
the Group liquidity pool. Cash collateral and 
settlement balances remained flat at £77bn.

Loans and advances at amortised cost 
increased £2bn to £326bn as £10bn of 
new lending, principally in mortgages and 
corporate lending, and the reclassification 
£5bn of held to maturity securities from 
financial investments was offset by the 
effects of the transition to IFRS 9. 

Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending decreased £10bn to 
£2bn reflecting the reclassification to financial 
assets at fair value through the income 
statement on transition to IFRS 9.

Trading portfolio assets decreased £10bn to 
£104bn. Financial assets at fair value through 
the income statement increased £34bn to 
£150bn primarily due to the impact arising 
from the transition to IFRS 9 and increased 
reverse repurchase agreements activity.

Derivative financial instrument assets 
decreased from £238bn to £223bn which 
is consistent with the movement in derivative 
financial instrument liabilities. The decrease 
in both was as a result of an increase in 
major interest rate forward curves and 
the adoption of daily settlement under the 
London Clearing House (LCH), partially offset 
by increased foreign exchange and equity 
derivative volumes.

Financial investments have been reclassified 
to financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income following the 
implementation of IFRS 9. As part of the 
reclassification £5bn of held to maturity 
securities were classified as loans and 
advances at amortised cost.

Total liabilities
Total liabilities increased £3bn to £1,070bn.

Deposits at amortised cost decreased £4bn 
to £395bn as the effects of transition to IFRS 9 
more than offset substantial and targeted 
increases in Barclays International deposits 
and strong deposit growth in Barclays UK.

Cash collateral and settlement balances 
remained flat at £68bn.

Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowing decreased £21bn to £19bn 
reflecting the reclassification to financial 
liabilities at fair value on transition to IFRS 9.

Debt securities in issue increased from 
£73bn to £82bn due to net issuances of 
bonds, medium term notes and commercial 
paper used to manage the Group liquidity 
pool. Subordinated liabilities decreased 
by £3bn to £21bn as a result of various 
redemptions during the year.

Trading portfolio liabilities increased £1bn 
to £38bn. Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value increased £43bn to £217bn primarily 
as a result of the effects of transition to IFRS 9 
and additional client margin deposits from 
the growth of the Equities business.

Derivative financial instruments decreased 
from £238bn to £220bn in line with 
the decrease in derivative financial 
instrument assets.

Total shareholders' equity
Total shareholders' equity decreased £1bn 
to £63bn.

Share capital and share premium decreased 
£17.7bn to £4.3bn. In September 2018, 
the High Court of Justice in England and 
Wales confirmed the cancellation of the 
share premium account of Barclays PLC, 
with the balance of £17.9bn credited to 
retained earnings.

Other equity instruments increased £0.7bn 
to £9.6bn primarily due the issuance of one 
USD AT1 security with a principal amount 
of $2.5bn partially offset by a redemption of 
one USD AT1 security with a principal amount 
of $2.0bn.

The fair value through other comprehensive 
income reserve represents the unrealised 
change in the fair value through other 
comprehensive income investments since 
initial recognition. Following the adoption 
of IFRS 9, accumulated fair value changes of 
£228m previously recognised in the available 
for sale reserve are now recorded in fair value 
through other comprehensive income.

The decrease in the year of £0.6bn was 
primarily driven by changes in the fair value 
of bonds held and a decrease in the Absa 
Group Limited share price.

The cash flow hedging reserve has decreased 
£0.5bn to £0.7bn as a result of the fair value 
movements of interest rate swaps held for 
hedging purposes as interest rate forward 
curves increased whilst gains transferred 
to net profit.

The currency translation reserve increased 
£0.8bn reflecting the increase in value of 
period end USD against GBP. 

Excluding the impact on transition to IFRS 9 
of £2bn, retained earnings increased £18bn 
as a result of the cancellation of the Group's 
share premium account and profits for 
the year. 

Tangible net asset value per share decreased 
to 262p (2017: 276p) as profit before 
tax was more than offset by the impact 
of implementing IFRS 9, the redemption 
of preference shares and dividends paid 
in the year. 

Balance sheet commentary

<Page End><Page Start>
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 6,028 6,086 6,048
Net fee, commission and other income 1,355 1,297 1,469
Total income 7,383 7,383 7,517
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (826) (783) (896)
Net operating income 6,557 6,600 6,621
Operating costs (4,075) (4,030) (3,792)
UK bank levy (46) (59) (48)
Litigation and conduct (483) (759) (1,042)
Total operating expenses (4,604) (4,848) (4,882)
Other net income/(expenses) 3 (5) (1)
Profit before tax 1,956 1,747 1,738
Attributable profit 1,158 853 828

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £187.6bn £183.8bn £166.4bn
Total assets £249.7bn £237.4bn £209.6bn
Customer deposits at amortised cost £197.3bn £193.4bn £189.0bn
Loan: deposit ratio 96% 95% 89%
Risk weighted assets £75.2bn £70.9bn £67.5bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £10.2bn £9.6bn £8.5bn

Key facts
Average LTV of mortgage portfolio 48% 48% 48%
Average LTV of new mortgage lending 65% 64% 63%
Number of branches 1,058 1,208 1,305
Mobile banking active customers 7.3m 6.4m 5.4m
30 day arrears rate – Barclaycard Consumer UK 1.8% 1.8% 1.9%
Number of employees (full time equivalent)a 22,600 22,800 36,000

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 11.9% 9.8% 9.6%
Average allocated tangible equity £10.0bn £9.1bn £8.9bn
Cost: income ratio 62% 66% 65%
Loan loss rate (bps)b 43 42 52
Net interest margin 3.23% 3.49% 3.62%

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductc

Profit before tax 2,439 2,506 2,780
Attributable profit 1,630 1,586 1,862
Return on average allocated tangible equity 16.7% 17.8% 21.3%
Cost: income ratio 56% 55% 51%

Notes
a As a result of the establishment of Barclays Execution Services in September 2017, employees who are now employed by Barclays Execution Services and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office. 
b Comparatives calculated based on gross loans and advances at amortised cost prior to the balance sheet presentation change and IAS 39 impairment charge.
c Refer to pages 241 to 245 for further information and calculations of performance measures excluding litigation and conduct.

Analysis of results by business

Barclays UK

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 231

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Analysis of Barclays UK
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Analysis of total income
Personal Bankinga 4,006 4,214 4,334
Barclaycard Consumer UK 2,104 1,977 2,022
Business Bankinga 1,273 1,192 1,161
Total income 7,383 7,383 7,517

Analysis of credit impairment charges and other provisions
Personal Bankinga (173) (221) (200)
Barclaycard Consumer UK (590) (541) (683)
Business Bankinga (63) (21) (13)
Total credit impairment charges and other provisions (826) (783) (896)

Analysis of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Personal Bankinga £146.0bn £141.3bn £138.5bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK £15.3bn £16.4bn £16.5bn
Business Bankinga £26.3bn £26.1bn £11.4bn
Total loans and advances to customers at amortised cost £187.6bn £183.8bn £166.4bn

Analysis of customer deposits at amortised cost
Personal Bankinga £154.0bn £153.1bn £156.3bn
Barclaycard Consumer UK – – –
Business Bankinga £43.3bn £40.3bn £32.7bn
Total customer deposits at amortised cost £197.3bn £193.4bn £189.0bn

Note
a In Q218, Wealth was reclassified from Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking (now named Business Banking) to Personal Banking. Comparatives have been restated. 

<Page End><Page Start>
232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

2018 compared to 2017
RoTE excluding litigation and conduct was 
16.7% (2017: 17.8%) reflecting the continuing 
strength of Barclays UK business. Including 
litigation and conduct charges of £483m 
(2017: £759m), RoTE increased to 11.9% 
(2017: 9.8%). 

Total income was stable at £7,383m (2017: 
£7,383m) as lower interest margins were 
offset by strong balance sheet growth in 
secured lending and customer deposits.

Personal Banking income decreased 5% 
to £4,006m as continued momentum in 
mortgage lending and growth in customer 
deposits was more than offset by the 
non-recurrence of an update to effective 
interest rate modelling in Q4 2017, a valuation 
gain on Barclays' preference shares in Visa Inc. 
in Q1 2017, and the realignment of clients 
from Barclays UK to Barclays International 
as part of structural reform. Barclaycard 
Consumer UK income increased 6% to 
£2,104m reflecting a focus on sustainable 
growth and the non-recurrence of 
remediation provisioning in H2 2017. 
Business Banking income increased 7% 
to £1,273m driven by strong deposit growth 
and the realignment of clients from Barclays 
International to Barclays UK as part of 
structural reform.

Net interest margin decreased 26bps to 
3.23% reflecting growth in secured lending 
at lower margins and the integration of the 
ESHLA portfolio.

Credit impairment charges increased 5% 
to £826m primarily due to a Q4 2018 
£100m specific charge for the impact of 
the anticipated economic uncertainty in the 
UK. This was partially offset by improved 
consensus-based macroeconomic forecasts 
during the year and the continued prudent 
management of credit risk reflected in the 
broadly stable 30 and 90 day arrears rates 
in UK Cards of 1.8% (2017: 1.8%) and 0.9% 
(2017: 0.8%) respectively.

Operating expenses excluding litigation 
and conduct increased 1% to £4,121m as 
continued investment to grow the business 
including digitisation of the bank and 
improvements to future operating efficiency, 
were partially offset by cost efficiencies and 
lower costs of setting up the ring-fenced bank. 
The cost: income ratio excluding litigation 
and conduct was 56% (2017: 55%).

Loans and advances to customers at 
amortised cost increased 2% to £187.6bn 
reflecting £4.6bn of mortgage growth. 

Total assets increased 5% to £249.7bn 
reflecting increases in the liquidity pool 
including the transfer of treasury assets 
from Head Office and loans and advances 
to customers.

Customer deposits at amortised cost 
increased 2% to £197.3bn as strong deposit 
growth was partially offset by the net 
realignment of clients between Barclays UK 
and Barclays International as part of 
structural reform.

RWAs increased to £75.2bn (December 2017: 
£70.9bn) primarily due to growth in mortgages 
and UK cards, and regulatory methodology 
changes for the ESHLA portfolio.

2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax increased 1% to £1,747m as 
lower PPI charges of £700m (2016: £1,000m) 
and a reduction in credit impairment charges 
were partially offset by the non-recurrence 
of the gain on disposal of Barclays' share of 
Visa Europe Limited in 2016, higher costs of 
setting up the ring-fenced bank and increased 
investment, primarily in cyber resilience, 
digital and technology.

Total income decreased 2% to £7,383m, 
of which £151m reflected the non-recurrence 
of the gain on disposal of Barclays' share 
of Visa Europe Limited in 2016.

Personal Banking income decreased 3% to 
£4,214m driven by the non-recurrence of the 
Visa gain and the impact of the UK base rate 
reduction in 2016, partially offset by deposit 
pricing initiatives, growth in balances and 
an update to effective interest rate modelling. 
Barclaycard Consumer UK income decreased 
2% to £1,977m reflecting a provision for 
remediation in H2 2017. Business Banking 
income increased 3% to £1,192m driven by 
the non-recurrence of the Visa gain, partially 
offset by growth in balances.

Net interest income increased 1% to £6,086m 
due to deposit pricing initiatives and growth 
in loans and advances to customers and 
deposits, partially offset by the impact of the 
UK base rate reduction in 2016. Net interest 
margin decreased 13bps to 3.49% reflecting 
the integration of the Education, Social 
Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA) 
portfolio from Non-Core on 1 July 2017. Net 
fee, commission and other income decreased 
12% to £1,297m driven by the non-recurrence 
of the Visa gain.

Credit impairment charges decreased 
13% to £783m principally reflecting the 
non-recurrence of a £200m charge in 2016 
following the management review of the cards 
portfolio impairment modelling, partially offset 
by higher charges in Barclaycard Consumer 
UK and Personal Banking.

Operating expenses decreased 1% to 
£4,848m due to lower charges for PPI of 
£700m (2016: £1,000m), partially offset by 
the costs of setting up the ring-fenced bank 
and increased investment, primarily in cyber 
resilience, digital and technology. The cost: 
income ratio was 66% (2016: 65%).

Loans and advances to customers at 
amortised cost increased 10% to £183.8bn 
and total assets increased 13% to £237.4bn 
reflecting the integration of the ESHLA 
portfolio from Non-Core into Business 
Banking on 1 July 2017 and mortgage 
growth in Personal Banking in H2 2017.

Customer deposits at amortised cost 
increased 2% to £193.4bn due to deposit 
growth, partially offset by the realignment 
of clients between Barclays UK and 
Barclays International in preparation 
for structural reform.

RWAs increased to £70.9bn (December 2016: 
£67.5bn) reflecting the integration of the 
ESHLA portfolio.

Analysis of results by business

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 233

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income 3,815 4,307 4,512
Net trading income 4,450 3,971 4,580
Net fee, commission and other income 5,761 6,104 5,903
Total income 14,026 14,382 14,995
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (658) (1,506) (1,355)
Net operating income 13,368 12,876 13,640
Operating costs (9,324) (9,321) (9,129)
UK bank levy (210) (265) (284)
Litigation and conduct (127) (269) (48)
Total operating expenses (9,661) (9,855) (9,461)
Other net income 68 254 32
Profit before tax 3,775 3,275 4,211
Attributable profit 2,441 847 2,412

 
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances at amortised cost £127.2bn £126.8bn £153.7bn
Trading portfolio assets £104.0bn £113.0bn £73.2bn
Derivative financial instrument assets £222.1bn £236.2bn £156.2bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities £219.6bn £237.8bn £160.6bn
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement £144.7bn £104.1bn £62.3bn
Total assets £862.1bn £856.1bn £648.5bn
Deposits at amortised cost £197.2bn £187.3bn £184.7bn
Loan: deposit ratio 65% 68% 83%
Risk weighted assets £210.7bn £210.3bn £212.7bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £29.9bn £27.5bn £25.6bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent)a 12,400 11,500 36,900

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 8.4% 3.4% 9.8%
Average allocated tangible equity £31.0bn £28.1bn £25.5bn
Cost: income ratio 69% 69% 63%
Loan loss rate (bps)b 50 75 63
Net interest margin 4.11% 4.16% 3.98%

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductc

Profit before tax 3,902 3,544 4,259
Attributable profit 2,547 1,107 2,457
Return on average allocated tangible equity 8.7% 4.4% 9.9%
Cost: income ratio 68% 67% 63%

Notes
a As a result of the establishment of Barclays Execution Services in September 2017, employees who are now employed by Barclays Execution Services and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office.
b Comparatives calculated based on gross loans and advances at amortised cost prior to the balance sheet presentation change and IAS 39 impairment charge.
c Refer to pages 241 to 245 for further information and calculations of performance measures excluding litigation and conduct.

Barclays International

<Page End><Page Start>
234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Analysis of Barclays International

Corporate and Investment Bank
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Income statement information
FICCa 2,863 2,875 3,489
Equities 2,037 1,629 1,790
Markets 4,900 4,504 5,279
Banking fees 2,531 2,612 2,397
Corporate lending 878 1,093 1,195
Transaction banking 1,627 1,629 1,657
Banking 5,036 5,334 5,249
Other (171) 40 5
Total income 9,765 9,878 10,533
Credit impairment releases/(charges) and other provisions 150 (213) (260)
Net operating income 9,915 9,665 10,273
Operating expenses (7,281) (7,475) (7,579)
Litigation and conduct (68) (267) (45)
Total operating expenses (7,349) (7,742) (7,624)
Other net income 27 133 1
Profit before tax 2,593 2,056 2,650

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances at amortised cost £86.4bn £88.2bn £114.0bn
Deposits at amortised cost £136.3bn £128.0bn £134.0bn
Risk weighted assets £170.9bn £176.2bn £178.6bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 6.9% 1.1% 6.1%
Average allocated tangible equity £26.0bn £24.0bn £21.9bn

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductb

Profit before tax 2,661 2,323 2,695
Return on average allocated tangible equity 7.1% 2.2% 6.3%

Consumer, Cards and Payments
Income statement information
Total income 4,261 4,504 4,462
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (808) (1,293) (1,095)
Net operating income 3,453 3,211 3,367
Operating expenses (2,253) (2,111) (1,834)
Litigation and conduct (59) (2) (3)
Total operating expenses (2,312) (2,113) (1,837)
Other net income 41 121 31
Profit before tax 1,182 1,219 1,561

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances at amortised cost £40.8bn £38.6bn £39.7bn
Deposits at amortised cost £60.9bn £59.3bn £50.7bn
Risk weighted assets £39.8bn £34.1bn £34.1bn

Key facts
30 day arrears rates – Barclaycard US 2.7% 2.6% 2.6%
Total number of Barclaycard business clients 374,000 366,000 355,000
Value of payments processed £344bn £322bn £296bn

Performance measures
Return on average allocated tangible equity 16.5% 16.7% 31.4%
Average allocated tangible equity £5.0bn £4.2bn £3.6bn

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductb

Profit before tax 1,241 1,221 1,564
Return on average allocated tangible equity 17.3% 16.8% 31.5%

Notes
a Fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC) is composed of Credit and Macro income.
b Refer to pages 241 to 245 for more information and calculations of performance measures excluding litigation and conduct.

Analysis of results by business

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 235

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

2018 compared to 2017
Profit before tax increased 10% to £3,902m 
achieving a RoTE of 8.7% (2017: 4.4%), 
reflecting improved returns in both CIB of 
7.1% (2017: 2.2%) and Consumer, Cards and 
Payments of 17.3% (2017: 16.8%) excluding 
litigation and conduct.

The 3% depreciation of average USD against 
GBP adversely impacted profits and income, 
and positively impacted credit impairment 
charges and operating expenses.

Total income was £14,026m (2017: £14,382m).

CIB income of £9,765m decreased 1% as 
Markets income increased 9% to £4,900m, 
reflecting gains in market share, offset by 
a decrease in Banking income of 6% to 
£5,036m.

FICC income was stable at £2,863m 
(2017: £2,875m) with significant share gainsa 
despite a challenging environment. Equities 
income increased 25% to £2,037m becoming 
one of the highest growing Equities franchises 
relative to peers, substantially improving our 
global ranking. This was driven by strength 
in derivatives and continued growth in the 
equity financing franchise through increased 
client balances, together with technology 
investment, which resulted in higher 
electronic revenues. 

Banking fee income decreased 3% to £2,531m 
as Barclays maintained its highest rank and 
global fee share in four years, including a 
record year in Advisory, which was more than 
offset by debt and equity underwriting fees 
being down across the industry. Corporate 
lending income reduced 20% to £878m 
reflecting the strategy of redeploying RWAs 
within the CIB towards higher returning 
business and the transfer of clients between 
Barclays UK and Barclays International as part 
of structural reform. Transaction banking 
income was stable at £1,627m (2017: 
£1,629m) as strong and targeted growth in 
deposits was offset by the transfer of clients 
between Barclays UK and Barclays 
International as part of structural reform.

Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
decreased 5% to £4,261m. Excluding material 
one-off items in both 2017 and 2018, related 
to US Cards portfolio sales and revaluation 
of Barclays preference shares in Visa Inc, 
underlying income increased due to growth 
in US Cards.

Credit impairment charges decreased 56% 
to £658m. CIB credit impairment charges 
decreased to a release of £150m (2017: 
charge of £213m) primarily due to single 
name recoveries, improved consensus-based 
macroeconomic forecasts during the year, 
the non-recurrence of single name charges 
in 2017 and the prudent management of 
credit risk, partially offset by a Q4 2018 £50m 
specific charge for the anticipated economic 
uncertainty in the UK. Consumer, Cards 
and Payments credit impairment charges 
decreased 38% to £808m reflecting the 
non-recurrence of a £168m charge in Q3 2017 
relating to deferred consideration from the 
Q1 2017 asset sale in US Cards, improved 
consensus-based macroeconomic forecasts 
in the US and the impact of repositioning the 
US Cards portfolio towards a lower risk mix.

Total operating expenses decreased 2% 
to £9,661m as continued investments in 
business growth, talent and technology were 
offset by lower restructuring and structural 
reform costs, and a reduced impact from the 
change in compensation awards introduced 
in Q4 2016.

Other net income decreased to £68m 
(2017: £254m) due to the non-recurrence 
of a gain of £109m on the sale of Barclays' 
share in VocaLink to MasterCard and a gain 
of £76m on the sale of a joint venture in Japan 
in Q2 2017.

Attributable profit increased to £2,441m 
(2017: £847m) as 2017 was impacted by the 
one-off tax charge due to the remeasurement 
of US DTAs. 

Loans and advances at amortised cost 
remained broadly flat at £127.2bn (December 
2017: £126.8bn). 

Derivative financial instrument assets and 
liabilities decreased £14.1bn to £222.1bn 
and £18.2bn to £219.6bn respectively, due to 
a decrease in interest rate derivatives, driven 
by an increase in major interest rate forward 
curves, and the adoption of daily settlement 
under the London Clearing House (LCH) rules, 
partially offset by increased foreign exchange 
and equity derivative volumes.

Financial assets at fair value through the 
income statement increased £40.6bn to 
£144.7bn primarily due to the impact of the 
transition to IFRS 9 and increased reverse 
repurchase agreements activity. 

Total assets increased £6.0bn to £862.1bn 
including the transfer of treasury assets from 
Head Office.

Deposits at amortised cost increased £9.9bn 
to £197.2bn, due to the integration of treasury 
liabilities from Head Office and a strong and 
targeted increase in deposits.

RWAs are in line at £210.7bn (December 2017: 
£210.3bn) as reductions in CIB were offset 
by increased lending in Consumer, Cards 
& Payments.

2017 compared to 2016
Profit before tax decreased 22% to £3,275m 
driven by a 4% decrease in total income, an 
11% increase in credit impairment charges 
and a 4% increase in operating expenses.

Total income decreased 4% to £14,382m, 
including the 5% appreciation of average 
USD and the 7% appreciation of average 
EUR against GBP, as CIB income decreased 6% 
to £9,878m, partially offset by a 1% increase 
in Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
to £4,504m.

Markets income decreased 15% to £4,504m. 
Macro income decreased driven by lower 
market volatility in rates, the exit of the 
energy-related commodities business and the 
integration of Non-Core assets on 1 July 2017. 
Credit income increased due to improved 
performance in municipals. Equities income 
decreased 9% to £1,629m driven by US equity 
derivatives as a result of lower market volatility, 
partially offset by improved performance 
in equity financing.

Banking income increased 2% to £5,334m. 
Banking fee income increased 9% to £2,612m 
due to higher debt and equity underwriting 
fees, with fee share gains in banking overall 
and debt underwriting. Corporate lending 
declined 9% to £1,093m driven by lower 
lending balances due to the realignment 
of certain clients between Barclays UK and 
Barclays International in preparation for 
structural reform and the reallocation of RWAs 
within CIB, as well as the non-recurrence of 
prior year treasury gains and lower work-out 
gains. Transaction banking declined 2% 
to £1,629m driven by lower trade balances 
and the non-recurrence of prior year treasury 
gains, partially offset by higher average 
deposit balances. 

Consumer, Cards and Payments income 
increased 1% to £4,504m driven by continued 
business growth, a gain of £192m relating 
to the Q1 2017 asset sale in US Cards and a 
valuation gain on Barclays' preference shares 
in Visa Inc. of £74m, partially offset by the 
non-recurrence of the £464m gain on the 
disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe 
Limited in 2016.

Note
All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays' internal business structure.

<Page End><Page Start>
236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Analysis of results by business

Credit impairment charges increased 11% 
to £1,506m, including the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB credit 
impairment charges decreased 18% to £213m 
primarily due to the non-recurrence of oil and 
gas single name charges in 2016, offset by a 
single name charge in 2017. Consumer, Cards 
and Payments credit impairment charges 
increased 18% to £1,293m primarily due to a 
£168m charge in Q3 2017 relating to deferred 
consideration from the Q1 2017 asset sale 
in US Cards, an increase in underlying 
delinquency trends and business growth 
in US Cards. This was partially offset by the 
non-recurrence of a £120m charge in 2016 
following the management review of the cards 
portfolio impairment modelling. The 30 and 
90 day arrears rates within US Cards were 
stable at 2.6% (December 2016: 2.6%) and 
1.3% (December 2016: 1.3%) respectively, 
including a benefit from the Q1 2017 asset 
sale in US Cards.

Operating expenses increased 4% to 
£9,855m, including the appreciation of 
average USD and EUR against GBP. CIB 
operating expenses increased 2% to £7,742m 
reflecting a provision of £240m in respect 
of foreign exchange matters recognised in 
Q4 2017, continued investment in technology, 
partially offset by lower restructuring charges 
and the reduced impact of the change in 
compensation awards introduced in Q4 2016. 
Consumer, Cards and Payments increased 
15% to £2,113m including continued growth 
and investment, primarily within the US Cards 
and merchant acquiring businesses.

Other net income increased to £254m 
(2016: £32m) due to a gain of £109m on 
the sale of Barclays' share in VocaLink to 
MasterCard and a gain of £76m on the sale 
of a joint venture in Japan.

Attributable profit reduced to £847m 
(2016: £2,412m) including the net tax charge 
due to the remeasurement of US DTAs in 
Q4 2017. 

Loans and advances at amortised cost 
decreased £26.9bn to £126.8bn with CIB 
decreasing £25.8bn to £88.2bn due to a 
reduction in lending. Consumer, Cards and 
Payments decreased £1.1bn to £38.6bn 
due to the depreciation of period end USD 
against GBP, partially offset by the realignment 
of certain clients from Barclays UK to 
Barclays International in preparation for 
structural reform.

Trading portfolio assets increased £39.8bn 
to £113.0bn due to increased activity.

Derivative financial instrument assets and 
liabilities increased £80.0bn to £236.2bn and 
£77.2bn to £237.8bn respectively, reflecting 
the integration of balances from Non-Core 
on 1 July 2017, partially offset by adoption of 
daily settlements under the CME, an increase 
in major interest rate forward curves and the 
depreciation of period end USD against GBP.

Financial assets at fair value through income 
statement increased £41.8bn to £104.1bn 
primarily due to increased reverse repurchase 
agreements activity.

Deposits at amortised cost increased £2.6bn 
to £187.3bn, with Consumer, Cards and 
Payments increasing £8.6bn to £59.3bn 
driven  by the realignment of certain clients 
from Barclays UK to Barclays International 
in preparation for structural reform. 
CIB decreased £6bn from a reduction 
in deposits within the Investment Bank.

RWAs decreased £2.4bn to £210.3bn due 
to the net impact of the remeasurement of 
US DTAs and the depreciation of period end 
USD against GBP, partially offset by increased 
trading portfolio and securities financing 
transaction volumes. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 237

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income (781) (435) (183)
Net fee, commission and other income 508 276 286
Total income (273) (159) 103
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 16 (17) –
Net operating (expenses)/income (257) (176) 103
Operating costs (228) (277) (135)
UK bank levy (13) (41) (2)
GMP charge (140) – –
Litigation and conduct (1,597) (151) (27)
Total operating expenses (1,978) (469) (164)
Other net (expenses)/income (2) (189) 128
(Loss)/profit before tax (2,237) (834) 67
Attributable (loss)/profit (2,205) (868) 110

Balance sheet information
Total assets £21.5bn £39.7bn £75.2bn
Risk weighted assets £26.0bn £31.8bn £53.3bn
Period end allocated tangible equity £4.9bn £10.0bn £9.7bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent)a 48,500 45,600 100

Performance measures
Average allocated tangible equity £3.1bn £9.3bn £6.5bn

Performance measures excluding litigation and conductb

Profit before tax (640) (683) 94
Attributable profit (647) (731) 133

Notes
a As a result of the establishment of Barclays Execution Services in September 2017, employees who are now employed by Barclays Execution Services and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office.
b Refer to pages 241 to 245 for more information and calculations of performance measures excluding litigation and conduct.

2018 compared to 2017
Loss before tax excluding litigation and 
conduct was £640m (2017: £683m). Including 
litigation and conduct charges of £1,597m 
(2017: £151m) primarily related to the £1,420m 
settlement with the US DoJ relating to RMBS, 
loss before tax was £2,237m (2017: £834m).

Total income was an expense of £273m (2017: 
£159m) reflecting legacy capital instrument 
funding costs of £351m and hedge accounting 
expenses. This was partially offset by a one-off 
gain of £155m from the settlement of 
receivables relating to the Lehman Brothers 
acquisition in Q2 2018, lower net expenses 
from treasury operations, higher Absa Group 
Limited dividend income and mark-to-market 
gains on legacy investments. 

Operating expenses excluding litigation 
and conduct and a GMP charge, reduced to 
£241m (2017: £318m) driven by lower costs 
associated with legacy Non-Core assets 
and businesses, and reduced bank levy. 
Total operating expenses of £1,978m 
(2017: £469m) included litigation and 
conduct charges of £1,597m (2017: £151m) 
and a £140m charge for GMP in relation to 

the equalisation of obligations for members 
of the Barclays Bank UKRF.

Other net expenses were £2m (2017: £189m) 
due to non-recurrence of a £180m expense 
in Q2 2017 on the recycling of the currency 
translation reserve to the income statement 
on the sale of Barclays Bank Egypt.

Total assets decreased to £21.5bn (December 
2017: £39.7bn) reflecting the transfer of 
treasury assets to Barclays UK and Barclays 
International as part of structural reform.

RWAs decreased to £26.0bn (December 2017: 
£31.8bn) reflecting the net reduction due 
to BAGL regulatory deconsolidation.

2017 compared to 2016
Loss before tax was £834m (2016: profit 
of £67m).

Total income reduced to an expense of £159m 
(2016: income of £103m) primarily due to 
lower net income from treasury operations.

Operating expenses increased to £469m 
(2016: £164m) due to costs associated with 
Non-Core assets and businesses, which were 
integrated on 1 July 2017, and increased 

litigation and conduct costs, including 
a settlement to resolve the civil action 
brought  by the US Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission's Office of Enforcement and 
provisions for other legacy redress.

Other net expenses were £189m (2016: 
income of £128m) driven by an expense 
of £180m on the recycling of the currency 
translation reserve to the income statement 
on the sale of Barclays Bank Egypt. 
2016 included a gain due to recycling of 
the currency translation reserve on disposal 
of the Southern European cards business.

Total assets decreased to £39.7bn 
(December 2016: £75.2bn) primarily due 
to the accounting deconsolidation of BAGL, 
which accounted for £65bn of total assets 
on deconsolidation from the Barclays Group. 
This was partially offset by the integration 
of Non-Core assets on 1 July 2017, of which 
c.£9bn related to Italian mortgages.

RWAs decreased to £31.8bn (December 2016: 
£53.3bn) reflecting a £31.1bn reduction 
as a result of the proportional consolidation 
of BAGL, partially offset by the integration 
of Non-Core assets.

Head Office

<Page End><Page Start>
238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Analysis of results by business

2018
£m

2017a
£m

2016
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income – (112) 160
Net trading income – (488) (1,703)
Net fee, commission and other income – 70 379
Total income – (530) (1,164)
Credit impairment charges and other provisions – (30) (122)
Net operating expenses – (560) (1,286)
Operating costs – (256) (1,509)
UK bank levy – – (76)
Litigation and conduct – (28) (246)
Total operating expenses – (284) (1,831)
Other net income – 197 331
Loss before tax – (647) (2,786)
Attributable loss – (419) (1,916)

Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost – – £51.1bn
Derivative financial instrument assets – – £188.7bn
Derivative financial instrument liabilities – – £178.6bn
Financial assets designated at fair value – – £14.5bn
Total assets – – £279.7bn
Customer deposits – – £12.5bn
Risk weighted assets – – £32.1bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) – – 5,500

Note
a Represents financial results for the six months ended 30 June 2017.

The Barclays Non-Core segment was closed 
on 1 July 2017 with the residual assets and 
liabilities reintegrated into, and associated 
financial performance subsequently reported 
in, Barclays UK, Barclays International and 
Head Office. Financial results up until 30 June 
2017 are reflected in the Non-Core segment 
within the Barclays Group's results for the 
year ended 31 December 2017. 

Barclays Non-Core

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 239

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

2018
£m

2017a
£m

2016
£m

Income statement information
Net interest income – 1,024 2,169
Net fee, commission and other income – 762 1,577
Total income – 1,786 3,746
Credit impairment charges and other provisions – (177) (445)
Net operating income – 1,609 3,301
Operating expenses excluding UK bank levy and impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL – (1,130) (2,345)
UK bank levy – – (65)
Other net income excluding loss on sale of BAGL – 5 6
Profit before tax excluding impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL and loss on sale of BAGL – 484 897
Impairment of Barclays' holding in BAGL – (1,090) –
Loss on sale of BAGL – (1,435) –
(Loss)/profit before tax – (2,041) 897
Tax charge – (154) (306)
(Loss)/profit after tax – (2,195) 591
Attributable (loss)/profit – (2,335) 189

Balance sheet information
Total assets – – £65.1bn
Risk weighted assets – – £42.3bn

Key facts
Number of employees (full time equivalent) – – 40,800

Note
a The Africa Banking income statement represents five months of results as a discontinued operation to 31 May 2017. 

Following the reduction of the Barclays 
Group's interest in BAGL in 2017, Barclays' 
remaining holding of 14.9%, for the 
year ended 31 December 2017 is reported 
as a financial asset at fair value through other 
comprehensive income in the Head Office 
segment, with Barclays' share of Absa Group 
Limited's dividend recognised in the Head 
Office income statement.

The PRA agreed to Barclays fully 
deconsolidating BAGL for regulatory reporting 
purposes effective 30 June 2018. Barclays had 
been applying proportional consolidation for 
regulatory purposes since Q2 2017. Barclays' 
shareholding in Absa Group Limited of 14.9% 
is now treated as a 250% risk weighted asset.

Discontinued Operation: Africa Banking

<Page End><Page Start>
240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Margins analysis 
Net interest margin decreased 21bps to 3.53% 
primarily reflecting the full year impact of the 
integration of Education, Social Housing and 
Local Authority (ESHLA) portfolio on 1 July 
2017, the mix shift given growth in secured 
lending and the recategorisation of certain 
treasury income following ring-fencing (from 
net interest income to non-interest income). 
Barclays Group net interest income decreased 
8% to £9.1bn including gross structural hedge 
contributions of £1.7bn (2017: £1.7bn).

For the year ended 31 December

2018 2017

Net interest
 income

£m

Average
 customer 

assets
£m

Net interest
 margin

%

Net interest
 income

£m

Average 
customer 

 assets
£m

Net interest 
margin

%

Barclays UK 6,028 186,881 3.23 6,086 174,484 3.49
Barclays Internationala 3,966 96,434 4.11 4,326 104,039 4.16
Total Barclays UK and Barclays International 9,994 283,315 3.53 10,412 278,523 3.74
Otherb (932) (567)
Total net interest income 9,062 9,845

Notes
a Barclays International margins include interest earning lending balances within the investment banking business. 
b Other includes Head Office and non-interest earning lending balances within the investment banking business. Barclays Non-Core is included in the first six months  

of the comparative period.

Margins and balances

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 241

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Barclays' management believes that the 
non-IFRS performance measures included 
in this document provide valuable information 
to the readers of the financial statements as 
they enable the reader to identify a more 
consistent basis for comparing the businesses' 
performance between financial periods, and 
provide more detail concerning the elements 
of performance which the managers of these 
businesses are most directly able to influence 

or are relevant for an assessment of the 
Barclays Group. They also reflect an important 
aspect of the way in which operating targets 
are defined and performance is monitored 
by Barclays' management. 

However, any non-IFRS performance 
measures in this document are not a 
substitute for IFRS measures and readers 
should consider the IFRS measures as well. 

Non-IFRS performance measures glossary
Measure Definition

Loan: deposit ratio Loans and advances at amortised cost divided by deposits at amortised cost. The components 
of the calculation have been included on page 186.

Period end allocated tangible equity Allocated tangible equity is calculated as 13.0% (2017: 12.0%) of RWAs for each business, 
adjusted for capital deductions, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, reflecting the 
assumptions the Barclays Group uses for capital planning purposes. Head Office allocated 
tangible equity represents the difference between the Barclays Group's tangible shareholders' 
equity and the amounts allocated to businesses.

Average tangible shareholders' equity Calculated as the average of the previous month's period end tangible equity and the current 
month's period end tangible equity. The average tangible shareholders' equity for the period 
is the average of the monthly averages within that period.

Average allocated tangible equity Calculated as the average of the previous month's period end allocated tangible equity and 
the current month's period end allocated tangible equity. The average allocated tangible equity 
for the period is the average of the monthly averages within that period.

Return on average tangible shareholders' 
equity

Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent, including an 
adjustment for the tax credit in reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion 
of average shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling interests and other equity 
instruments adjusted for the deduction of intangible assets and goodwill. The components 
of the calculation have been included on pag 242.

Return on average allocated tangible equity Statutory profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent, including an 
adjustment for the tax credit in reserves in respect of other equity instruments, as a proportion 
of average allocated tangible equity. The components of the calculation have been included 
on pages 242.

Cost: income ratio Total operating expenses divided by total income.

Loan loss rate Quoted in basis points and represents total impairment charges divided by gross loans and 
advances held at amortised cost at the balance sheet date. The components of the calculation 
have been included on page153.

Net interest margin Net interest income divided by the sum of average customer assets. The components of the 
calculation have been included on page 240.

Tangible net asset value per share Calculated by dividing shareholders' equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other 
equity instruments, less goodwill and intangible assets, by the number of issued ordinary 
shares. The components of the calculation have been included on page 245.

Performance measures excluding litigation 
and conduct

Calculated by excluding litigation and conduct charges from performance measures. 
The components of the calculations have been included on pages 243 to 245.



Financial review

Non-IFRS performance measures

<Page End><Page Start>
242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Non-IFRS performance measures

Returns
Return on average tangible equity is  
calculated as profit for the period attributable 
to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
(adjusted for the tax credit recorded in 
reserves in respect of interest payments on 
other equity instruments) divided by average 
tangible equity for the period, excluding 
non-controlling and other equity interests 
for businesses.

Allocated tangible equity has been calculated 
as 13.0% (2017: 12.0%) of RWAs for each 
business, adjusted for capital deductions, 
excluding goodwill and intangible assets, 
reflecting the assumptions the Barclays Group 
uses for capital planning purposes. Head 
Office average allocated tangible equity 
represents the difference between the Barclays 
Group's average tangible shareholders' equity 
and the amounts allocated to businesses.

Attributable 
profit/(loss)

£m

Tax credit
in respect
of interest

payments on
other equity
instruments

£m

Profit/(loss)
attributable
to ordinary

equity
holders of
the parent

£m

Average
tangible

equity
£bn

Return on
 average
 tangible

 equity
%

For the year ended 31 December 2018
Barclays UK 1,158 40 1,198 10.0 11.9

Corporate and Investment Bank 1,641 140 1,781 26.0 6.9
Consumer, Cards and Payments 800 18 818 5.0 16.5

Barclays International 2,441 158 2,599 31.0 8.4
Head Office (2,205) 5 (2,200) 3.1 n/m
Barclays Group 1,394 203 1,597 44.1 3.6

For the year ended 31 December 2017
Barclays UK 853 40 893 9.1 9.8

Corporate and Investment Bank 167 102 269 24.0 1.1
Consumer, Cards and Payments 680 18 698 4.2 16.7

Barclays International 847 120 967 28.1 3.4
Head Officea (868) 4 (864) 9.3 n/m
Barclays Non-Core (419) 10 (409) 2.4 n/m
Africa Banking discontinued operationa (2,335) – (2,335) n/m n/m
Barclays Group (1,922) 174 (1,748) 48.9 (3.6)

For the year ended 31 December 2016
Barclays UK 828 29 857 8.9 9.6

 Corporate and Investment Bank 1,270 72 1,342 21.9 6.1
 Consumer, Cards and Payments 1,142 11 1,153 3.6 31.4

Barclays International 2,412 83 2,495 25.5 9.8
Head Officea 110 (1) 109 6.5 n/m
Barclays Non-Core (1,916) 17 (1,899) 7.8 n/m
Africa Banking discontinued operationa 189 – 189 n/m n/m
Barclays Group 1,623 128 1,751 48.7 3.6

Note
a Average allocated tangible equity for Africa Banking is included within Head Office.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 243

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Performance measures excluding litigation and conduct

Cost: income ratio

For the year ended 31 December 2018

Barclays UK
£m

Corporate 
and

 Investment
 Bank

£m

Consumer,
 Cards and
 Payments

£m

Barclays
 International

£m
Head Office

£m

Barclays 
Group

£m
Total operating expenses (4,604) (7,349) (2,312) (9,661) (1,978) (16,243)
Impact of litigation and conduct 483 68 59 127 1,597 2,207
Operating expenses (4,121) (7,281) (2,253) (9,534) (381) (14,036)

Total income 7,383 9,765 4,261 14,026 (273) 21,136

Cost: income ratio excluding litigation and conduct 56% 75% 53% 68% n/m 66%

Profit before tax
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,956 2,593 1,182 3,775 (2,237) 3,494
Impact of litigation and conduct 483 68 59 127 1,597 2,207
Profit/(loss) before tax excluding litigation and conduct 2,439 2,661 1,241 3,902 (640) 5,701

Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent
Attributable profit/(loss) 1,158 1,641 800 2,441 (2,205) 1,394
Post-tax impact of litigation and conduct 472 62 44 106 1,558 2,136
Attributable profit/(loss) excluding litigation and conduct 1,630 1,703 844 2,547 (647) 3,530
Tax credit in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments 40 140 18 158 5 203
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
excluding litigation and conduct 1,670 1,843 862 2,705 (642) 3,733

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity
Average shareholders' equity £13.6bn £26.2bn £6.1bn £32.3bn £6.2bn £52.1bn
Goodwill and intangibles (£3.6bn) (£0.2bn) (£1.1bn) (£1.3bn) (£3.1bn) (£8.0bn)
Average tangible shareholders' equity £10.0bn £26.0bn £5.0bn £31.0bn £3.1bn £44.1bn

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity excluding litigation 
and conduct 16.7% 7.1% 17.3% 8.7% n/m 8.5%

Barclays Group average tangible shareholders' equity based on a CET1 
ratio of 13% £45.0bn

Barclays Group return on average tangible shareholders' equity 
excluding litigation and conduct based on a CET1 ratio of 13% 8.3%

Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic weighted average number of shares 17,075m

Basic earnings per ordinary share excluding litigation and conduct 21.9p

<Page End><Page Start>
244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Financial review

Cost: income ratio

For the year ended 31 December 2017

Barclays UK
£m

Corporate 
and

 Investment
 Bank

£m

Consumer, 
Cards and
 Payments

£m

Barclays
 International

£m
Head Officea

£m

Barclays 
Groupb

£m

Total operating expenses (4,848) (7,742) (2,113) (9,855) (469) (15,456)
Impact of litigation and conduct 759 267 2 269 151 1,207
Operating expenses (4,089) (7,475) (2,111) (9,586) (318) (14,249)

Total income 7,383 9,878 4,504 14,382 (159) 21,076

Cost: income ratio excluding litigation and conduct 55% 76% 47% 67% n/m 68%

Profit before tax
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,747 2,056 1,219 3,275 (834) 3,541
Impact of litigation and conduct 759 267 2 269 151 1,207
Profit/(loss) before tax excluding litigation and conduct 2,506 2,323 1,221 3,544 (683) 4,748

Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent
Attributable profit/(loss) 853 167 680 847 (868) (1,922)
Post-tax impact of litigation and conduct 733 259 1 260 137 1,150
Attributable profit/(loss) excluding litigation and conduct 1,586 426 681 1,107 (731) (772)
Tax credit in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments 40 102 18 120 4 174
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
excluding litigation and conduct 1,626 528 699 1,227 (727) (598)

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity
Average shareholders' equity £13.6bn £24.9bn £5.6bn £30.5bn £10.6bn £57.1bn
Goodwill and intangibles (£4.4bn) (£1.0bn) (£1.4bn) (£2.4bn) (£1.4bn) (£8.2bn)
Average tangible shareholders' equity £9.1bn £24.0bn £4.2bn £28.1bn £9.3bn £48.9bn

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity excluding litigation  
and conduct 17.8% 2.2% 16.8% 4.4% n/m (1.2%)

Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic weighted average number of shares  16,996m

Basic loss per ordinary share excluding litigation and conduct (3.5p)

Notes
a Average tangible shareholders' equity for Africa is included within Head Office.
b Barclays Group results also included Barclays Non-Core and the Africa Banking discontinued operation.

Non-IFRS performance measures

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 245

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial review

Cost: income ratio

For the year ended 31 December 2016

Barclays UK
£m

Corporate 
and

 Investment
 Bank

£m

Consumer, 
Cards and
 Payments

£m

Barclays
 International

£m
Head Officea

£m

Barclays 
Groupb

£m

Total operating expenses (4,882) (7,624) (1,837) (9,461) (164) (16,338)
Impact of litigation and conduct 1,042 45 3 48 27 1,363
Operating expenses (3,840) (7,579) (1,834) (9,413) (137) (14,975)

Total income 7,517 10,533 4,462 14,995 103 21,451

Cost: income ratio excluding litigation and conduct 51% 72% 41% 63% n/m 70%

Profit before tax
Profit before tax 1,738 2,650 1,561 4,211 67 3,230
Impact of litigation and conduct 1,042 45 3 48 27 1,363
Profit before tax excluding litigation and conduct 2,780 2,695 1,564 4,259 94 4,593

Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent
Attributable profit 828 1,270 1,142 2,412 110 1,623
Post-tax impact of litigation and conduct 1,034 44 1 45 23 1,285
Attributable profit excluding litigation and conduct 1,862 1,314 1,143 2,457 133 2,908
Tax credit in respect of interest payments on other equity instruments 29 72 11 83 (1) 128
Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
excluding litigation and conduct 1,891 1,386 1,154 2,540 132 3,036

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity
Average shareholders' equity £13.4bn £23.2bn £5.0bn £28.2bn £8.0bn £57.4bn
Goodwill and intangibles (£4.5bn) (£1.4bn) (£1.3bn) (£2.7bn) (£1.4bn) (£8.7bn)
Average tangible shareholders' equity £8.9bn £21.9bn £3.6bn £25.5bn £6.5bn £48.7bn

Return on average tangible shareholders' equity excluding litigation 
and conduct 21.3% 6.3% 31.5% 9.9% n/m 6.2%

Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic weighted average number of shares 16,860m

Basic earnings per ordinary share excluding litigation and conduct 18.0p

Notes
a Average tangible shareholders' equity for Africa is included within Head Office.
b Barclays Group results also included Barclays Non-Core and the Africa Banking discontinued operation.

Tangible net asset value
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 62,556 63,905 64,873
Other equity instruments (9,632) (8,941) (6,449)
Goodwill and intangiblesa (7,973) (7,849) (9,245)
Tangible shareholders' equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 44,951 47,115 49,179

Shares in issue 17,133m 17,060m 16,963m

Tangible net asset value per share 262p 276p 290p

Note
a Comparative figures for 2016 include goodwill and intangibles in relation to Africa Banking.

<Page End><Page Start>
246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Barclays approach to disclosures
Barclays aims to continually enhance its 
disclosures and their usefulness to the readers 
of the financial statements in the light of 
developing market practice and areas of focus. 
Consequently Barclays' disclosures go 
beyond the minimum standards required 
by accounting standards and other 
regulatory requirements. 

Barclays continues to support the 
recommendations and guidance made by 
the Financial Stability Board and its various 
task forces which continue to promote a 
broadening of disclosures by global banks 
in a number of areas, including liquidity and 
funding, credit risk and market risk. Barclays 
has adopted the recommendations across 
the Annual Report and Pillar 3 Report.

In line with the Financial Reporting Council's 
guidance on Clear and Concise reporting, 
Barclays has focused reporting on material 
items and sought to present information 
in order to aid users' understanding such 
as including detail on relevant accounting 
policies within each note.

British Bankers' Association (BBA) Code 
for Financial Reporting Disclosure as 
adopted by UK Finance in 2017
Barclays has adopted the BBA Code for 
Financial Reporting Disclosure and has 
prepared the 2018 Annual Report and 
Accounts in compliance with the Code. 

It is Barclays' view that best in class disclosures 
will continue to evolve in light of ongoing 
market and stakeholder engagement within 
the banking sector. Barclays is committed to 
continuously reflect the objectives of reporting 
set out in the BBA Code for Financial Reporting 
Disclosure. This code sets out five disclosure 
principles together with supporting guidance 
which states that UK banks will:
■■ provide high quality, meaningful and 

decision-useful disclosures
■■ review and enhance their financial 

instrument disclosures for key areas 
of interest

■■ assess the applicability and relevance of 
good practice recommendations to their 
disclosures acknowledging the importance 
of such guidance

■■ seek to enhance the comparability of 
financial statement disclosures across 
the UK banking sector and

■■ clearly differentiate in their annual reports 
between information that is audited and 
information that is unaudited.

Statutory accounts
The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC 
and its subsidiaries (set out on pages 256 to 
261 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC 
itself on pages 262 to 263) have been prepared 
in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. The accounting 
policies on pages 264 to 267 and the notes 
commencing on page 268 apply equally to 
both sets of accounts unless otherwise stated.

Capital Requirements  
Country-by-Country Reporting
The Capital Requirements (Country-by-
Country Reporting) Regulations 2013 require 
Barclays PLC to publish additional information 
in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2018. This information is available on the 
Barclays website: barclays.com/citizenship/
our-reporting-and-policy-positions/
country-snapshot 

Presentation of information

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 247

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Financial statements

Detailed analysis of our statutory accounts, independently 
audited and providing in-depth disclosure on the financial 
performance of the Barclays Group.

Consolidated financial statements Page Note
■■ Independent Auditor's Report 248 n/a
■■ Consolidated income statement 256 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 257 n/a
■■ Consolidated balance sheet 258 n/a
■■ Consolidated statement of changes in equity 259 n/a
■■ Consolidated cash flow statement 261 n/a
■■ Parent company accounts 262 n/a

Notes to the financial statements
■■ Significant accounting policies 264 1

 Performance/return ■■ Segmental reporting 268 2
■■ Net interest income 270 3
■■ Net fee and commission income 270 4
■■ Net trading income 272 5
■■ Net investment income 272 6
■■ Credit impairment charges and other provisions 273 7
■■ Operating expenses 277 8
■■ Tax 278 9
■■ Earnings per share 282 10
■■ Dividends on ordinary shares 282 11

Assets and liabilities held at fair value ■■ Trading portfolio 283 12
■■ Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 283 13
■■ Derivative financial instruments 284 14
■■ Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 

and Financial investments 290 15
■■ Financial liabilities designated at fair value 290 16
■■ Fair value of financial instruments 291 17
■■ Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 305 18

Financial instruments held at
amortised cost

■■ Loans and advances and deposits at amortised cost 307 19
■■ Finance leases 308 20

Non-current assets and other
investments

■■ Property, plant and equipment 309 21
■■ Goodwill and intangible assets 310 22
■■ Operating leases 312 23

Accruals, provisions, contingent
liabilities and legal proceedings

■■ Other liabilities 313 24
■■ Provisions 313 25
■■ Contingent liabilities and commitments 315 26
■■ Legal, competition and regulatory matters 315 27

Capital instruments, equity  
and reserves

■■ Subordinated liabilities 323 28
■■ Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity 326 29
■■ Reserves 327 30
■■ Non-controlling interests 328 31

Employee benefits ■■ Share-based payments 329 32
■■ Pensions and post-retirement benefits 331 33

Scope of consolidation ■■ Principal subsidiaries 336 34
■■ Structured entities 337 35
■■ Investments in associates and joint ventures 340 36
■■ Securitisations 341 37
■■ Assets pledged 342 38

Other disclosure matters ■■ Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration 343 39
■■ Auditors' remuneration 345 40
■■ Discontinued operations and assets included in disposal groups 

classified as held for sale and associated liabilities 345 41
■■ Transition disclosures 347 42
■■ Barclays PLC (the Parent company) 354 43
■■ Related undertakings 355 44

<Page End><Page Start>
248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European 
Union on our audit
Refer to page 43 (Viability Statement) and page 131(Risk review) 

Unprecedented levels of uncertainty
All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, 
in particular as described in impairment of loans and advances 
to customers below, and related disclosures and the appropriateness 
of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial 
statements (see below). All of these depend on assessments 
of the future economic environment and the group's future 
prospects and performance.

In addition, we are required to consider the other information 
presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks 
disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the Directors' 
statement that the Annual Report and financial statements taken 
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and 
Parent's position and performance, business model and strategy.

Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK 
and at the date of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented 
levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible 
effects unknown.

We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the consideration 
of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our 
audits. Our procedures included:
■■ Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the Directors' assessment 

of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Group and Parent's business and 
financial resources compared with our own understanding of the risks. 
We considered the Directors' plans to take action to mitigate the risks. 

■■ Sensitivity analysis: When addressing impairment of loans and 
advances to customers and other areas that depend on forecasts, 
we compared the Directors' analysis to our assessment of the full range 
of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, 
where forecast cash flows are required to be discounted at a rate other 
than the original effective interest rate, considered adjustments to 
discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.

■■ Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual disclosures 
as part of our procedures on impairment of loans and advances to 
customers we considered all of the Brexit-related disclosures together, 
including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture 
against our understanding of the risks.

Our results:
As reported under impairment of loans and advances to customers, 
we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of impairment 
of loans and advances to customers and disclosures in relation to going 
concern to be acceptable. However, no audit should be expected to predict 
the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company 
and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.

1 Our opinion is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements 
of Barclays PLC (‘the Company') for the 
year ended 31 December 2018 which 
comprise the consolidated and parent 
Company balance sheets as at 
31 December 2018 and the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated and parent 
Company statements of comprehensive 
income, cash flow statements and statements 
of changes in equity for the year then ended, 
and the related notes, including the significant 
accounting policies in Note 1. 

In our opinion the financial statements: 
■■ give a true and fair view of the state of the 

Group's and of the parent Company's affairs 
as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group's 
profit for the year then ended 

■■ have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), and

■■ have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 

Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK) 
(‘ISAs (UK)') and applicable law. Our 
responsibilities are described below. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate 
basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion 
is consistent with our report to the Board 
Audit Committee. 

We were first appointed as auditor by the 
Directors on 31 March 2017. The period of 
total uninterrupted engagement is for the 
two financial years ended 31 December 2018. 
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities 
under, and we remain independent of the 
Group in accordance with, UK ethical 
requirements including the FRC Ethical 
Standard as applied to listed public interest 
entities. No non-audit services prohibited 
by that standard were provided. 

2 Key audit matters: including our 
assessment of risks of material misstatement
Key audit matters are those matters that, 
in our professional judgement, were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements and include the most significant 
assessed risks of material misstatement 
(whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, 
including those which had the greatest effect 
on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation 
of resources in the audit; and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team. 
We summarise below the key audit matters 
in arriving at our audit opinion above, together 
with our key audit procedures to address 
those matters and, as required for public 
interest entities, our results from those 
procedures. These matters were addressed, 
and our results are based on procedures 
undertaken, in the context of, and solely 
for the purpose of, our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and consequently are 
incidental to that opinion, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Independent Auditor's report  
to the members of Barclays PLC

Independent Auditor's report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 249

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Impairment allowances on loans and advances at amortised cost, 
including off-balance sheet elements of the allowance
Refer to page 61 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 273 
(accounting policy on accounting for the impairment of financial 
assets under IFRS 9), page 149 (credit risk disclosures), and  
page 273 (financial disclosure note 7 Credit Impairment charges 
and other provisions)

Subjective estimate
IFRS 9 was implemented by the Group on 1 January 2018. 
This new and complex standard requires the Group to recognise 
expected credit losses (‘ECL') on financial instruments, which 
involves significant judgement and estimates and resulted in 
an increase in credit loss provisions. During the year credit loss 
provisions increased from £4.7bn as at 31 December 2017 to £6.8bn 
as at 31 December 2018. The key areas where we identified greater 
levels of management judgement and therefore increased levels 
of audit focus in the Group's implementation of IFRS 9 are:
■■ Economic scenarios – IFRS 9 requires the Group to measure ECLs 

on a forward-looking basis reflecting a range of future economic 
conditions. Significant management judgement is applied to 
determining the economic scenarios used and the probability 
weightings applied to them especially for the credit card, 
mortgages, consumer lending and corporate portfolios.

■■ Significant Increase in Credit Risk (‘SICR') – For the credit cards, 
consumer loans and corporate portfolios the criteria selected 
to identify a significant increase in credit risk is a key area of 
judgement within the Group's ECL calculation as these criteria 
determine whether a 12 month or lifetime provision is recorded. 

■■ Model estimations – Inherently judgemental modelling is used to 
estimate ECLs which involves determining Probabilities of Default 
(‘PD'), Loss Given Default (‘LGD'), and Exposures at Default 
(‘EAD'). The PD models used in the credit card, consumer loans 
and corporate portfolios are the key drivers of the Group's ECL 
results and are therefore most significant judgemental aspect 
of the Group's ECL modelling approach.

■■ Qualitative adjustments – Adjustments to the model-driven 
ECL results are raised by management to address known 
impairment model limitations or emerging trends. They represent 
approximately 6% net of the ECL. Such adjustments are inherently 
uncertain and significant management judgement is involved in 
estimating these amounts especially in relation to the credit card, 
consumer loan, business banking and corporate portfolios.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, 
we determined that the impairment of loans and advances to 
customers has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a 
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times 
that amount. The credit risk sections of the financial statements 
disclose the sensitivities estimated by the Group.

Disclosure quality
The disclosures regarding the Group's application of IFRS 9 are 
key to understanding the change from IAS 39 as well as explaining 
the key judgements and material inputs to the IFRS 9 ECL results.

Our procedures included:
■■ Controls testing: We performed end to end process walk-throughs 

to identify the key systems, applications and controls used in the ECL 
processes. We tested the relevant general IT and applications controls 
over key systems used in the ECL process.

Key aspects of our controls testing involved the following:
 – for the relevant portfolios, testing the design and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the completeness and accuracy 
of the key inputs and assumptions into the IFRS 9 impairment models

 – testing the design and operating effectiveness of the key controls 
over the authorisation and application of the SICR criteria

 – evaluating controls over model monitoring and validation
 – evaluating controls over authorisation and calculation of post 
model adjustments and management overlays, and

 – testing key controls relating to selection and implementation 
of material macroeconomic variables and the controls over the 
scenario selection and probabilities.

■■ Our financial risk modelling expertise: For the credit card, consumer 
loans and corporate portfolios we involved our own financial risk 
modelling specialists in evaluating the appropriateness of the Group's 
IFRS 9 impairment methodologies (including the SICR criteria used). 
We used our experience to independently assess probability of default, 
loss given default and exposure at default assumptions. For a sample 
of models we assessed the reasonableness of the model predictions 
by comparing them against actual results. 

■■ Our economic scenario expertise: We involved our own economic 
specialists to assist us in assessing the appropriateness of the Group's 
methodology for determining the economic scenarios used and the 
probability weightings applied to them. We also assessed key economic 
variables used which included agreeing samples of economic variables 
to external sources as well as the overall reasonableness of the 
economic forecasts by comparing the Group's forecasts to our 
own modelled forecasts with a focus on the credit cards, mortgages, 
consumer lending and corporate portfolios. As part of this work we 
assessed the reasonableness of the Group's considerations of the 
ECL impact of economic uncertainty, including Brexit. 

Test of details: Key aspects of our testing involved:
 – sample testing over key inputs and assumptions impacting ECL 
calculations to assess the reasonableness of economic forecasts, 
weights, and PD assumptions applied

 – Re-performing key aspects of the Group's SICR determinations
 – assessing model predictions against actual results, and
 – selecting a sample of post model adjustments, considering the 
size and complexity of management overlays, in order to assess the 
reasonableness of the adjustments by challenging key assumptions, 
inspecting the calculation methodology and tracing a sample back 
to source data.

■■ Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the disclosures 
appropriately disclose and address the uncertainty which exists when 
determining the expected credit losses. As a part of this, we assessed 
the sensitivity analysis that is disclosed. In addition, we assessed 
whether the disclosure of the key judgements and assumptions 
made was sufficiently clear. 

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the ECL 
charge, provision recognised and the related disclosures to be acceptable.

<Page End><Page Start>
250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Conduct redress costs (PPI)
Refer to page 61 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 313 
(accounting policy on accounting for provisions), and page 313 
(financial disclosure note 25 Provisions) 

Subjective estimate
The calculation of the provision for PPI redress costs for the Group 
requires the Directors to determine a number of key inputs. The 
determination of these is judgemental and requires the Directors 
to consider a range of information. The most significant input into 
the PPI provision calculation is the future complaint flow and that 
is where we have focused our procedures. 

The Directors have developed a model which calculates the expected 
future complaint flow and associated redress cost. A key factor 
impacting the period over which the model forecasts complaint 
flows was the introduction of a Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA') 
time-bar for processing new complaints. The effective date of the 
time-bar is August 2019, and prior to that the FCA is running a 
consumer communications campaign to give potential 
complainants notice of the time-bar.

The Directors have assessed the appropriateness of the provision 
with reference to the expected impact of this time-bar and also 
in the context of the historical observation across the industry 
in recent years that the complaint flow has always been greater 
than expected. 
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, 
we determined that PPI provision costs have significant estimation 
uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater 
than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Disclosure quality
The related PPI disclosures provide the key assumptions 
underpinning the calculation of the future complaint flow 
and sensitivity of the provision to the flow and are therefore 
key to understanding the judgement which has been applied.

Our procedures included:
■■ Historic comparison: We evaluated the assumptions used, particularly 

those in relation to future complaint flow which led to an adjustment 
to provision estimates in 2018.

■■ Enquiry of regulators: We inspected correspondence with the FCA 
and PRA to identify any regulatory observations on the future complaint 
flow. We also made enquiries of the FCA discussing the nature of the 
matters contained in regulatory correspondence that could materially 
affect the level of provisions held.

■■ Controls testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness 
of the key controls over capturing of historic complaints data and 
estimating the future complaint flow volumes. 

■■ Sensitivity analysis: We considered the sensitivity of the model 
to variations in the future complaint flow. We also considered the 
appropriateness of the scenarios used to model the potential range 
of future complaint flows, with particular focus on the way the 
impact of the time-bar and FCA communication campaign have been 
determined. We also considered the sensitivity of the model to variations 
in the future complaint flow by inspecting the calculation methodology 
and challenging the key assumptions using our industry knowledge.

■■ Independent reperformance: We built our own model to allow us to 
determine a range of potential future complaint flows under multiple 
independently selected scenarios and compared these to the Group's 
own range. We also used our independently determined range to assess 
the appropriateness of the Group's point estimate. We developed 
a number of these scenarios using regression analysis of Barclays' 
historical complaint data. Where there were differences in the inputs 
and ranges we challenged the Group's rationale for these and assessed 
whether they were reasonable. We also used our model to understand 
the effect of these ranges on the potential future redress cost.

■■ Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the disclosures 
appropriately disclose and address the significant uncertainty which 
exists when estimating the future complaint flow. As a part of this, 
we reperformed the sensitivity analysis that is disclosed. 

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the 
liability recognised, and sensitivity disclosures made, to be acceptable 
(2017 result: acceptable).

Independent Auditor's report  
to the members of Barclays PLC

Independent Auditor's report

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 251

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value
Refer to page 62 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 291 
(accounting policy on accounting for financial assets and liabilities), 
and page 291 (financial disclosure note 17 Fair value of 
financial instruments).

Subjective valuation
The fair value of the Group's financial instruments is determined 
through the application of valuation techniques which often involve 
the exercise of judgement by management and the use of 
assumptions, estimates and valuation models.

Where significant pricing inputs are unobservable, management 
has no reliable, relevant market data available in determining the fair 
value and hence estimation uncertainty can be high. These financial 
instruments are classified as Level 3, with management having 
controls in place over the boundary between Level 2 and 3 positions.

Our significant audit risk is therefore over significant Level 3 portfolios.

We performed risk assessment procedures over the entire Level 3 
balance within the Group's financial statements. As part of these 
risk assessment procedures we identified which portfolios have a 
risk of material misstatement including those arising from significant 
judgements over valuation either due to unobservable inputs or 
complex models.
At 31 December 2018, Level 3 instruments (£18.6bn) represented 
3.5% of the Group's financial instrument assets carried at fair value 
and 1.1% (£5bn) of the Group's financial instrument liabilities carried 
at fair value.
Within this Level 3 population the fair value instrument portfolios 
in the Group with the most significant judgements include:
■■ Education, Social Housing and Local Authority (‘ESHLA') loan 

portfolio – as at 31 December 2018 the Group has outstanding 
ESHLA loans which require significant judgement in the 
valuation due to the long dated nature of the portfolio, the lack 
of a secondary market in the relevant loans and unobservable 
loan spreads.

■■ Longer-dated derivative portfolios – we identified three portfolios 
(two derivative portfolios and a bond package) each with a 
significant risk attached to the valuation methodology due to the 
lack of observable pricing inputs. The bond package also includes 
a long-standing valuation disparity with the counterparty.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, 
we determined that the subjective estimates in fair value 
measurement of the above portfolios have a high degree of 
estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable 
outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements 
as a whole, and possibly many times that amount. 
Disclosure quality
The IFRS 13 fair value measurement disclosures are key to explaining 
the valuation techniques, key judgements, assumptions and 
material inputs.
The financial statements, Note 17, includes disclosure of sensitivity 
of valuation inputs to fair value measurement by the Group.

Our procedures included:
■■ Control testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key 

controls relating specifically to the ESHLA and the three longer-dated 
portfolios. These included:

 – controls over price verification (‘IPV'), performed by a control 
function, of key inputs, including completeness of positions and 
valuation inputs subject to IPV

 – for ESHLA we tested controls over the gilt asset swap curve and credit 
spreads. For the long dated portfolios we tested material risk 
parameters used in valuation models

 – controls over fair value adjustments (FVA). For ESHLA these related 
to pre-payments. For the longer-dated portfolios these related to exit 
adjustments (to mark the portfolio to bid or offer prices) and model 
shortcoming reserves to address model limitations. In addition we 
tested funding and credit adjustments for all significant risk portfolios

 – controls over the validation, completeness, implementation and usage 
of valuation models. This included controls over assessment of model 
limitations and assumptions, and

 – controls over the levelling classification applied to trades within these 
portfolios in line with IFRS 13 disclosure requirements.

■■ Independent reperformance: With the assistance of our own valuation 
specialists we independently re-priced a selection of trades from the 
ESHLA and three longer-dated portfolios and challenged management 
on the valuations where they were outside our expected tolerance.

■■ Methodology choice: In the context of observed industry practice, our 
own valuation specialists assisted us in challenging the appropriateness 
of significant models and methodologies used in calculating fair values, 
risk exposures, appropriateness of risk factors, and in calculating FVAs.

■■ Comparing valuations: For a selection of material collateral disputes 
within the longer-dated portfolios we challenged management's 
valuation methodology where significant fair value differences were 
observable with the market participant on the other side of the trade.

■■ Historical comparison: We inspected significant gains and losses on 
trade exits or restructurings and challenged whether these data points 
indicate elements of fair value not incorporated in the current 
valuation methodologies.

We inspected movements in unobservable inputs throughout the period 
to challenge whether any gain or loss generated was appropriate.
Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the fair 
value of Level 3 financial instrument assets and liabilities recognised 
to be acceptable (2017 result: acceptable).

<Page End><Page Start>
252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Independent Auditor's report  
to the members of Barclays PLC

Independent Auditor's report

Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Legal, competition and regulatory matters
Refer to page 62 (Board Audit Committee Report), page 313 
(accounting policy on accounting for provisions), page 315 
(accounting policy on contingent liabilities and commitments), 
page 313 (financial disclosures note 27 Provisions), and page 315 
(financial disclosures note 29 Legal, competition and 
regulatory matters)

Exposure completeness
The Group and Parent operates in a highly litigious and regulated 
environment and faces legal, competition and regulatory challenges 
which can lead to potential claims and exposures (together ‘litigation 
and regulatory matters'). In certain litigation and regulatory matters 
significant judgement is required by the Directors to determine if 
there is a present obligation under relevant accounting standards.

Subjective estimate
If there is a present obligation the amounts involved can be 
potentially significant, and the application of accounting standards 
to estimate the expected outflow, if any, of any liability to be 
recognised is inherently subjective.

The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we 
determined that the litigation liability has a high degree of estimation 
uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater 
than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.

Disclosure quality
When a liability is not recognised for possible significant outflows 
but there is more than a remote likelihood of an adverse outcome, 
the related disclosure is key to understanding the risks and potential 
effect on the Group and Parent.

Our procedures included:
■■ Inspection of Board of Directors meeting minutes: We inspected 

the Board of Directors meeting minutes to obtain an understanding 
of the status of all significant litigation and regulatory matters.

■■ Inspection of regulatory correspondence: We inspected 
correspondence with the relevant regulatory authorities to identify 
actual or possible non-compliance with laws and regulations that 
may have a material effect on the financial statements.

■■ Enquiry of lawyers: For significant litigation and regulatory matters we 
enquired of the Group and Parent's internal legal counsel and inspected 
internal notes and reports. We also received formal confirmations from 
external counsel. For the most significant litigation and regulatory 
matters we also had discussions with external counsel. Based on these 
procedures we challenged the timing of the recognition of provisions 
where there is potential exposure but it is not clear whether a present 
obligation exists or where the Directors have determined a reliable 
estimate is not possible.

■■ Test of details: For the significant provisions we independently assessed 
the estimated value of the provision, based on our enquiries of lawyers 
and information obtained from our other procedures.

■■ Assessing transparency: Assessed whether the disclosures detailing 
significant litigation and regulatory matters adequately disclose the 
potential liabilities and the significant uncertainties that exist.

Our results:
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the 
provisions recognised, and the disclosures made, to be acceptable 
(2017 result: acceptable).

User Access Management (‘UAM')
Control Performance
The Group's accounting and reporting processes are dependent 
on automated controls enabled by IT systems. User access 
management controls are an important component of the General 
IT Control environment assuring that unauthorised access to 
systems do not impact the effective operation of the automated 
controls in the financial reporting processes. 

In prior years key user access management controls were reported 
as not consistently implemented and effectively operated across the 
Group. Ineffective controls included developer access to production, 
logging/monitoring of user activities and segregation of duties.

A series of remediation programmes was completed to address 
previously identified control deficiencies. The Group has also 
implemented further compensating controls to address the issues raised 
in the current year, most of them relating to user access management.

If the above controls for user access management are deficient 
and not remediated or adequately mitigated the pervasive nature 
of these controls may undermine our ability to place some reliance 
on automated and IT dependent controls in our audit.

Our procedures included:
■■ Control testing: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of 

key controls over user access management, including controls over:
 – authorising access for new joiners
 – removal of user access rights on a timely basis
 – inappropriate privileged and developer access to production systems, the 
procedures to assess potential use, and the removal of these access rights

 – segregation of duties including access to multiple systems that could 
circumvent segregation controls, and

 – re-certification of user access rights.
■■ Control reperformance: To assess whether additional detective 

compensating controls adequately address the risk of unauthorised 
access, we reperformed on a sample basis management's assessment 
of potential unauthorised access by privileged accounts and users, 
whose access rights were not recertified.

Our results:
Our testing did not identify unauthorised user activities in the systems 
relevant to financial reporting which would have required us to expand the 
extent of our planned detailed testing. (2017: Our testing did not identify 
developers who had access and used the access without authorisation that 
would have required us to expand the extent of our planned detailed testing.)

Recoverability of Parent company's investment in subsidiaries
The carrying amount of the Parent company's investments in 
subsidiaries represents 61% (2017: 57%) of the Company's total 
assets. Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant 
misstatement or subject to significant judgement. However, due 
to their materiality in the context of the parent company financial 
statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest 
effect on our overall Parent company audit.

Our procedures included:
■■ Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of the highest value 

investments, representing 99% of the total investment balance with the 
relevant subsidiaries' draft balance sheet to identify whether their net 
assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, 
were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those 
subsidiaries have historically been profit-making. Where we found net 
assets to be lower than the cost of investment, we have assessed 
recoverability through projection of future cash flows to ascertain 
if  an impairment is required.

■■ Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the 
subsidiary audit teams on that sample of those subsidiaries and considering 
the results of that work, on those subsidiaries' profits and net assets.

Our results:
We found the group's assessment of the recoverability of the investment 
in subsidiaries to be acceptable (2017: acceptable).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 253

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

3 Our application of materiality and 
an overview of the scope of our audit 
Materiality
Materiality for the Group financial statements 
as a whole was set at £250 million, 
determined with reference to a benchmark 
of group profit before tax from continuing 
operations, normalised to exclude charges 
related to litigation and conduct as disclosed 
in the consolidated income statement, of 
£5,701 million, of which it represents 4.4%. 

Materiality for the Parent company financial 
statements as a whole was set at £235 million, 
determined with reference to a benchmark 
of net assets, of which it represents 0.4%. 

We agreed to report to the Board Audit 
Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding 
£12 million, in addition to other identified 
misstatements that warranted reporting 
on qualitative grounds. 

Group materiality

A

B

C

A £250m 
 Whole financial 
 statements materiality 
 (2017: £225m)

B £145m 
 Range of materiality 
 at six components 
 (£37m–£145m)
 (2017: £25m–£165m)

C £12m 
 Misstatements 
 reported to the Board 
 Audit Committee
 (2017: £11m)

21

2018 2017
1 Profit before tax from 

continuing operations* £5,701m £4,748m
2 Group materiality £250m £225m

* normalised to exclude charges related to litigation 
and conduct

Scope – general
We subjected five (2017: six) of the group's 
eporting components, to full scope audits 
for group purposes and one (2017: four) to 
specified risk-focused audit procedures which 
focused on the financial assets designated at 
fair value financial statement caption. The last 
component was not individually financially 
significant enough to require a full scope audit 
for group purposes, but did present specific 
individual risks that needed to be addressed. 

The remaining 7% (2017: 19%) of total Group 
income and 2% (2017: 10%) of total Group 
assets is represented by a number of other 
reporting components, none of which were 
individually significant. For these residual 
components, we performed analysis at an 
aggregated group level to re-examine our 
assessment that there were no significant 
risks of material misstatement within these.

The work on all components was performed 
by component auditors and the remaining 
work, including the audit of the Parent 
company, was performed by the Group team. 
For those items excluded from normalised 
group profit before tax, the component teams 
performed procedures on items relating to 
their components. The group team performed 
procedures on the remaining excluded items.

The components within the scope of 
our work accounted for the percentages 
illustrated below.

Group total income
(2017: 81%)

1

4

5
6

2
3

95%

1 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 95%
2 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 0%
3 Residual components 2018 5%
4 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 79%
5 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 2%
6 Residual components 2017 19%

Group total assets
(2017: 90%)

1

4
2

5
6

93%

3

1 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 91%
2 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 2%
3 Residual components 2018 7%
4 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 87%
5 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 3%
6 Residual components 2017 10%

Team structure
The Group team led a global planning 
conference to discuss key audit risks and 
to obtain input from component and other 
participating locations. The Group team 
instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including 
the relevant key audit matters detailed above 
and the information to be reported back. 
The Group team approved the component 
materiality for each component, which ranged 
from £36.6 million to £145 million, having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile 
across the components. 

 The Group team visited all of the components 
in scope for group reporting purposes to 
assess the audit risk and strategy. Conference 
meetings and calls were also held with these 
component auditors throughout the conduct 
of the audit. At these visits and meetings, 
we reviewed the components' key working 
papers, the findings reported to the Group 
team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group team was 
then performed by the component auditor.

The Group has centralised certain group-wide 
processes in India, the outputs of which are 
included in the financial information of 
the reporting components it services and 
therefore it is not a separate reporting 
component. These group wide processes 
are subject to specified audit procedures, 

predominantly the testing of transaction 
processing, reconciliations and review 
controls. Additional procedures are performed 
at certain reporting components to address 
the audit risks not covered by the work 
performed over these group-wide processes 
in India. The Group team and certain 
component teams visited the locations in 
India where these group-wide processes 
reside and performed consistent procedures 
as described above for component site visits.

4 We have nothing to report on going 
concern 
The Directors have prepared the financial 
statements on the going concern basis as 
they do not intend to liquidate the Company 
or the Group or to cease their operations, and 
as they have concluded that the Company's 
and the Group's financial position means that 
this is realistic. They have also concluded that 
there are no material uncertainties that could 
have cast significant doubt over their ability 
to continue as a going concern for at least a 
year from the date of approval of the financial 
statements (‘the going concern period').
Our responsibility is to conclude on the 
appropriateness of the Directors' conclusions 
and, had there been a material uncertainty 
related to going concern, to make reference 
to that in this audit report. However, as we 
cannot predict all future events or conditions 
and as subsequent events may result in 
outcomes that are inconsistent with 
judgements that were reasonable at the time 
they were made, the absence of reference to 
a material uncertainty in this auditor's report 
is not a guarantee that the Group and the 
Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors' conclusions, 
we considered the inherent risks to the 
Group's and Company's business model and 
analysed how those risks might affect the 
Group's and Company's financial resources or 
ability to continue operations over the going 
concern period. The risks that we considered 
most likely to adversely affect the Group's and 
Company's available financial resources over 
this period were:
■■ availability of funding and liquidity in the 

event of a market wide stress scenario 
including the impact of Brexit, and

■■ impact on regulatory capital requirements 
in the event of an economic slowdown 
or recession.

As these were risks that could potentially 
cast significant doubt on the Group's and 
the Company's ability to continue as a going 
concern, we considered sensitivities over 
the level of available financial resources 
indicated by the Group's financial forecasts 
taking account of reasonably possible 
(but not unrealistic) adverse effects that 
could arise from these risks individually and 
collectively and evaluated the achievability 
of the actions the Directors consider they 
would take to improve the position should 
the risks materialise.

<Page End><Page Start>
254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Independent Auditor's report  
to the members of Barclays PLC

Independent Auditor's report

Based on this work, we are required to report 
to you if:
■■ we have anything material to add or draw 

attention to in relation to the Directors' 
statement Note 1 to the financial 
statements on the use of the going concern 
basis of accounting with no material 
uncertainties that may cast significant 
doubt over the Group and Company's 
use of that basis for a period of at least 
12 months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements, or 

■■ the related statement under the Listing 
Rules is materially inconsistent with our 
audit knowledge. 

We have nothing to report in these respects, 
and we did not identify going concern as 
a key audit matter.

5 We have nothing to report on the other 
information in the Annual Report
The Directors are responsible for the other 
information presented in the Annual Report 
together with the financial statements. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information and, accordingly, 
we do not express an audit opinion or, 
except as explicitly stated below, any form 
of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider 
whether, based on our financial statements 
audit work, the information therein is 
materially misstated or inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our audit knowledge. 
Based solely on that work we have not 
identified material misstatements in the 
other information.

Strategic report and Directors' report 
Based solely on our work on the other 
information: 
■■ we have not identified material 

misstatements in the strategic report 
and the Directors' report 

■■ in our opinion the information given in those 
reports for the financial year is consistent 
with the financial statements, and 

■■ in our opinion those reports have been 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. 

Directors' remuneration report
In our opinion the part of the Directors' 
Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006. 

Disclosures of principal risks and 
longer-term viability 
Based on the knowledge we acquired during 
our financial statements audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention 
to in relation to:
■■ the Directors' confirmation within the 

Viability statement (page 42) that they 
have carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity 

■■ the material existing and emerging risks 
disclosures describing these risks within 
the Viability statement (page 42) and 
explaining how they are being managed 
and mitigated, and 

■■ the Directors' explanation in the Viability 
statement of how they have assessed the 
prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they considered 
that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions. 

Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review the Viability statement. We have 
nothing to report in this respect.

Our work is limited to assessing these 
matters in the context of only the knowledge 
acquired during our financial statements 
audit. As we cannot predict all future events 
or conditions and as subsequent events 
may result in outcomes that are inconsistent 
with judgements that were reasonable at the 
time they were made, the absence of anything 
to report on these statements is not a 
guarantee as to the Group's and Company's 
longer-term viability. 

Corporate governance disclosures 
We are required to report to you if:
■■ we have identified material inconsistencies 

between the knowledge we acquired 
during our financial statements audit and 
the Directors' statement that they consider 
that the Annual Report and financial 
statements taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group's position and 
performance, business model and 
strategy, or 

■■ the section of the Annual Report 
describing the work of the Board Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the 
Board Audit Committee.

We are required to report to you if the 
Corporate Governance Statement does 
not properly disclose a departure from 
the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified by the Listing 
Rules for our review.

We have nothing to report in these respects.



6 We have nothing to report on the other 
matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
■■ adequate accounting records have not 

been kept by the Parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or

■■ the Parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors' Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or

■■ certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or

■■ we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

7 Respective responsibilities
Directors' responsibilities
As explained more fully in their going concern 
and Directors' responsibilities statements set 
out on page 92, the Directors are responsible 
for: the preparation of the financial statements 
including being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view; such internal control as 
they determine is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error; assessing the Group 
and Parent company's ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern; and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless 
they either intend to liquidate the Group or 
the Parent company or to cease operations, 
or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 

Auditor's responsibilities 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or other 
irregularities (see below), or error, and to issue 
our opinion in an auditor's report. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
does not guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other 
irregularities or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of the financial statements. 

A fuller description of our responsibilities 
is provided on the FRC's website at  
frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 255

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Irregularities – ability to detect
We identified areas of laws and regulations 
that could reasonably be expected to have 
a material effect on the financial statements 
from our general commercial and sector 
experience, through discussion with the 
Directors and other management (as required 
by auditing standards) and from inspection 
of the Group's regulatory correspondence 
and discussed with the Directors and other 
management the policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with laws and 
regulations. We communicated identified 
laws and regulations throughout our team 
and remained alert to any indications of 
non-compliance throughout the audit. 
This included communication from the group 
to component audit teams of relevant laws 
and regulations identified at the group level.

The potential effect of these laws and 
regulations on the financial statements 
varies considerably. Firstly, the group is subject 
to laws and regulations that directly affect 
the financial statements including financial 
reporting legislation (including related 
companies legislation), distributable profits 
legislation and taxation legislation. We 
assessed the extent of compliance with these 
laws and regulations as part of our procedures 
on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the group is subject to many other 
laws and regulations where the consequences 
of non-compliance could have a material 

effect on amounts or disclosures in the 
financial statements, for instance through the 
imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of 
the group's license to operate. We identified 
the following areas as those most likely to have 
such an effect: specific areas of regulatory 
capital and liquidity, conduct including PPI 
mis-selling, money laundering, sanctions list 
and financial crime, market abuse regulations 
and certain aspects of company legislation 
recognising the financial and regulated nature 
of the group's activities. Auditing standards 
limit the required audit procedures to identify 
non-compliance with these laws and 
regulations to enquiry of the Directors 
and other management and inspection of 
regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. 
These limited procedures did not identify 
actual or suspected non-compliance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, 
there is an unavoidable risk that we may not 
have detected some material misstatements 
in the financial statements, even though we 
have properly planned and performed our 
audit in accordance with auditing standards. 
For example, the further removed 
non-compliance with laws and regulations 
(irregularities) is from the events and 
transactions reflected in the financial 
statements, the less likely the inherently 
limited procedures required by auditing 
standards would identify it. In addition, 
as with any audit, there remained a higher 

risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal controls. We are not responsible 
for preventing non-compliance and cannot 
be expected to detect non-compliance with 
all laws and regulations.

8 The purpose of our audit work and 
to whom we owe our responsibilities
This report is made solely to the Company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company's 
members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor's report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company's members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.

Michelle Hinchliffe  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP,  
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL

20 February 2019

<Page End><Page Start>
256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

For the year ended 31 December Notes
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Continuing operations
Interest income 3 14,541 13,631 14,541
Interest expense 3 (5,479) (3,786) (4,004)
Net interest income 9,062 9,845 10,537
Fee and commission income 4 8,893 8,751 8,570
Fee and commission expense 4 (2,084) (1,937) (1,802)
Net fee and commission income 6,809 6,814 6,768
Net trading income 5 4,566 3,500 2,768
Net investment income 6 585 861 1,324
Other income 114 56 54
Total income 21,136 21,076 21,451
Credit impairment charges and other provisions 7 (1,468) (2,336) (2,373)
Net operating income 19,668 18,740 19,078
Staff costs 8 (8,629) (8,560) (9,423)
Infrastructure costs 8 (2,950) (2,949) (2,998)
Administration and general expensesa 8 (2,457) (2,740) (2,554)
Provisions for litigation and conducta 8 (2,207) (1,207) (1,363)
Operating expenses 8 (16,243) (15,456) (16,338)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 69 70 70
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures –    187 420
Profit before tax 3,494 3,541 3,230
Taxation 9 (1,122) (2,240) (993)
Profit after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,372 1,301 2,237
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation –    (2,195) 591
Profit/(loss) after tax 2,372 (894) 2,828

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 1,394 (1,922) 1,623
Other equity instrument holders 752 639 457
Total equity holders of the parent 2,146 (1,283) 2,080
Non-controlling interests in respect of continuing operations 31 226 249 346
Non-controlling interests in respect of discontinued operation 31 –    140 402
Profit/(loss) after tax 2,372 (894) 2,828

Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 10 9.4 (10.3) 10.4
Basic earnings per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 10 9.4 3.5 9.3
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation 10 – (13.8) 1.1
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 10 9.2 (10.1) 10.3
Diluted earnings per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 10 9.2 3.4 9.2
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued operation 10 – (13.5) 1.1

Note
a The presentation of administration and general expenses has been amended to include provisions for litigation and conduct as a separate line item. The prior year comparatives 

within administration and general expenses categories have been adjusted accordingly. 

Consolidated income statement
Consolidated financial statements

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 257

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Profit/(loss) after tax 2,372 (894) 2,828
Profit after tax in respect of continuing operations 2,372 1,301 2,237
(Loss)/profit after tax in respect of discontinued operation –    (2,195) 591

Other comprehensive income/(loss) that may be recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations:
Currency translation reserve
Currency translation differencesa 834 (1,337) 3,024
Available for sale reserveb

Net gains from changes in fair value –    473 2,147
Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal –    (294) (912)
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment –    3 20
Net losses/(gains) transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging –    283 (1,677)
Changes in insurance liabilities and other movements –    11 53
Tax –    (27) (18)
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserveb

Net losses from changes in fair value (553) –    –    
Net losses transferred to net profit on disposal 48 –    –    
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 4 –    –    
Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 236 –    –    
Other movements (26) –    –    
Tax 65 –    –    
Cash flow hedging reserve
Net (losses)/gains from changes in fair value (344) (626) 1,455
Net gains transferred to net profit (332) (643) (365)
Tax 175 321 (292)
Other 30 (5) 13
Other comprehensive income/(loss) that may be recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations 137 (1,841) 3,448

Other comprehensive income/(loss) not recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations:
Retirement benefit remeasurements 412 115 (1,309)
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (260) –    –    
Own credit 77 (7) –    
Tax (118) (66) 329
Other comprehensive income/(loss) not recycled to profit or loss from continuing operations 111 42 (980)

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 248 (1,799) 2,468

Other comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operation – 1,301 1,520

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax from continuing operations 2,620 (498) 4,705
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax from discontinued operation – (894) 2,111
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 2,620 (1,392) 6,816

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 2,394 (1,749) 5,233
Non-controlling interests 226 357 1,583
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 2,620 (1,392) 6,816

Notes
a Includes £41m loss (2017: £189m loss; 2016: £101m gain) on recycling of currency translation differences.
b  Following the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments on 1 January 2018, the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve was introduced replacing the available for 

sale reserve. 

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated financial statements

<Page End><Page Start>
258 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

As at 31 December Notes
2018

£m
2017a

£m
2016a

£m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 171,082 102,353
Cash collateral and settlement balances 77,222 77,168 90,135
Loans and advances at amortised cost 19 326,406 324,048 345,900
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 2,308 12,546 13,454
Trading portfolio assets 12 104,187 113,760 80,240
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 13 149,648 116,281 78,608
Derivative financial instruments 14 222,538 237,669 346,626
Financial investments – 58,915 63,317
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 15 52,816 – –
Investments in associates and joint ventures 36 762 718 684
Goodwill and intangible assets 22 7,973 7,849 7,726
Property, plant and equipment 21 2,535 2,572 2,825
Current tax assets 9 798 482 561
Deferred tax assets 9 3,828 3,457 4,869
Retirement benefit assets 33 1,768 966 14
Other assets 3,425 4,542 4,360
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 41 – 1,193 71,454
Total assets  1,133,283 1,133,248 1,213,126
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost 394,838 398,701 390,744
Cash collateral and settlement balances 67,522 68,143 80,648
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 18,578 40,338 19,760
Debt securities in issue 82,286 73,314 75,932
Subordinated liabilities 28 20,559 23,826 23,383
Trading portfolio liabilities 12 37,882 37,351 34,687
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 16 216,834 173,718 96,031
Derivative financial instruments 14 219,643 238,345 340,487
Current tax liabilities 9 628 586 737
Deferred tax liabilities 9 51 44 29
Retirement benefit liabilities 33 315 312 390
Other liabilities 24 7,716 9,011 9,507
Provisions 25 2,652 3,543 4,134
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 41 – – 65,292
Total liabilities 1,069,504 1,067,232 1,141,761
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 29 4,311 22,045 21,842
Other equity instruments 29 9,632 8,941 6,449
Other reserves 30 5,153 5,383 6,051
Retained earnings 43,460 27,536 30,531
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests 62,556 63,905 64,873
Non-controlling interests 31 1,223 2,111 6,492
Total equity  63,779 66,016 71,365
Total liabilities and equity  1,133,283 1,133,248 1,213,126

Note
a Barclays introduced changes to the balance sheet presentation as at 31 December 2017 as a result of the adoption of new accounting policies on 1 January 2018. The 

comparatives as at 31 December 2016 have been updated to reflect this presentation change. Further detail on the adoption of new accounting policies can be found in Note 1 
on pages 264 to 267, Note 42 on pages 347 to 354 and the Credit risk disclosures on pages 149 to 175.

The Board of Directors approved the financial statements on pages 256 to 358 on 20 February 2019.

John McFarlane
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director 

Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated financial statements

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 259

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Called up
share

capital
and share
premiuma

£m

Other
 equity
 instru-

mentsa
£m

Available 
for sale
reserveb

£m

Fair value
 through 

other
compre-
hensive 
income 
reserveb

£m

Cash
flow

hedging
reserveb

£m

Currency
 translation

reserveb
£m

Own 
credit

 reserveb
£m

Other
reserves

 and
 treasury

 sharesb
£m

Retained
earnings

£m

Total 
equity

 excluding
 non-

 controlling
 interests

£m

Non-
 controlling
interests

£m

Total
equity

£m
Balance as at 
31 December 2017 22,045 8,941 364 – 1,161 3,054 (179) 983 27,536 63,905 2,111 66,016
Effects of changes in 
accounting policiesc – – (364) 228 – – – – (2,014) (2,150) – (2,150)
Balance as at  
1 January 2018 22,045 8,941 – 228 1,161 3,054 (179) 983 25,522 61,755 2,111 63,866
Profit after tax – 752 – – – – – – 1,394 2,146 226 2,372
Currency translation 
movements – – – – – 834 – – – 834 – 834
Fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
reserve – – – (486) – – – – – (486) – (486)
Cash flow hedges – – – – (501) – – – – (501) – (501)
Retirement benefit 
remeasurements – – – – – – – – 313 313 – 313
Own credit reserve – – – – – – 58 – – 58 – 58
Other – – – – – – – – 30 30 – 30
Total comprehensive 
income for the year – 752 – (486) (501) 834 58 – 1,737 2,394 226 2,620
Issue of new ordinary 
shares 88 – – – – – – – – 88 – 88
Issue of shares under 
employee share schemes 51 – – – – – – – 449 500 – 500
Capital reorganisation (17,873) – – – – – – – 17,873 – – –
Issue and exchange of 
other equity instruments – 692 – – – – – – (308) 384 – 384
Other equity instruments 
coupons paid – (752) – – – – – – 203 (549) – (549)
Redemption of preference 
shares – – – – – – – – (732) (732) (1,309) (2,041)
Debt to equity 
reclassificationd – – – – – – – – – – 419 419
Increase in treasury shares – – – – – – – (267) – (267) – (267)
Vesting of shares under 
employee share schemes – – – – – – – 268 (499) (231) – (231)
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (768) (768) (226) (994)
Other reserve movements – (1) – – – – – – (17) (18) 2 (16)
Balance as at 
31 December 2018 4,311 9,632 – (258) 660 3,888 (121) 984 43,460 62,556 1,223 63,779

Notes
a For further details refer to Note 29.
b For further details refer to Note 30.
c Following the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments on 1 January 2018, the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve was introduced replacing the available for 

sale reserve. From the opening balance of the available for sale reserve of £364m, £228m has been reclassified to the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve, 
£139m has been reclassified to retained earnings and an impairment charge of £3m has been recognised through to retained earnings.

d Following a review of subordinated liabilities issued by Barclays Bank PLC, certain instruments deemed to have characteristics that qualify them as equity have been reclassified.

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated financial statements

<Page End><Page Start>
260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Called up
share

capital
and share
premiuma

£m

Other
 equity
 instru-
mentsa

£m

Available 
for sale
reserveb

£m

Cash
flow

hedging
reserveb

£m

Currency
translation

reserveb
£m

Own 
credit

 reserveb
£m

Other
reserves

 and
 treasury

 sharesb
£m

Retained
earnings

£m

Total 
equity

 excluding
 non-

controlling
 interests

£m

Non-
controlling

interests
£m

Total
equity

£m

Balance as at 31 December 2016 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051 –    969 30,531 64,873 6,492 71,365
Effects of changes in accounting 
policiesc – – – – – (175) – 175 – – –
Balance as at 1 January 2017 21,842 6,449 (74) 2,105 3,051 (175) 969 30,706 64,873 6,492 71,365
Profit after tax –    639 –    –    –    –    –    413 1,052 249 1,301
Currency translation movements –    –    –    –    (1,336) –    –    –    (1,336) (1) (1,337)
Available for sale investments –    –    449 –    –    –    –    –    449 –    449
Cash flow hedges –    –    –    (948) –    –    –    –    (948) –    (948)
Retirement benefit remeasurements –    –    –    –    –    –    –    53 53 –    53
Own credit reserve –    –    –    –    –    (11) –    –    (11) –    (11)
Other –    –    –    –    –    –    –    (5) (5) –    (5)
Total comprehensive income net of 
tax from continuing operations –    639 449 (948) (1,336) (11) –    461 (746) 248 (498)
Total comprehensive income net of 
tax from discontinued operation –    –    (11) 4 1,339 –    –    (2,335) (1,003) 109 (894)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year –    639 438 (944) 3 (11) –    (1,874) (1,749) 357 (1,392)
Issue of new ordinary shares 117 –    –    –    –    –    –    –    117 –    117
Issue of shares under employee 
share schemes 86 –    –    –    –    –    –    505 591 –    591
Issue and exchange of other equity 
instruments –    2,490 –    –    –    –    –    –    2,490 –    2,490
Other equity instruments coupons 
paid –    (639) –    –    –    –    –    174 (465) –    (465)
Redemption of preference shares –    –    –    –    –    –    –    (479) (479) (860) (1,339)
Increase in treasury shares –    –    –    –    –    –    (315) –    (315) –    (315)
Vesting of shares under employee 
share schemes –    –    –    –    –    –    329 (636) (307) –    (307)
Dividends paid –    –    –    –    –    –    –    (509) (509) (415) (924)
Net equity impact of partial BAGL 
disposal –    –    –    –    –    –    –    (359) (359) (3,462) (3,821)
Other reserve movements –    2 –    –    –    7 –    8 17 (1) 16
Balance as at 31 December 2017 22,045 8,941 364 1,161 3,054 (179) 983 27,536 63,905 2,111 66,016

Notes
a For further details refer to Note 29.
b For further details refer to Note 30.
c As a result of the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit which was previously recorded in the income statement is now recognised 

within other comprehensive income. The cumulative unrealised own credit net loss of £175m was therefore reclassified from retained earnings to a separate own credit reserve, 
within other reserves. During 2017, a £4m loss (net of tax) on own credit was booked in the reserve. 

Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 261

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Consolidated cash flow statement
Consolidated financial statements

For the year ended 31 December Notes
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Continuing operations
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 3,494 3,541 3,230
Adjustment for non-cash items: –
Allowance for impairment 1,468 2,336 2,357
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 1,261 1,241 1,261
Other provisions, including pensions 2,594 1,875 1,964
Net loss/(profit) on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 28 (325) (912)
Other non-cash movements including exchange rate movements (4,366) 1,031 (20,025)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities –
Net increase in cash collateral and settlement balances (574) (3,713) 348
Net (increase)/decrease in loans and advances to banks and customers (10,602) 18,569 (20,055)
Net (increase)/decrease in reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending (1,711) 908 14,733
Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 23,969 5,339 43,386
Net increase/(decrease) in repurchase agreements and other similar borrowing 3,525 20,578 (4,852)
Net (increase)/decrease in derivative financial instruments (3,571) 6,815 (2,318)
Net decrease/(increase) in trading assets 9,958 (33,492) (5,577)
Net increase in trading liabilities 531 2,664 880
Net (increase)/decrease in financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income 
statement (12,686) 40,014 807
Net decrease/(increase) in other assets 489 (3,775) (2,629)
Net decrease in other liabilities (4,755) (2,187) (532)
Corporate income tax paid 9 (548) (708) (780)
Net cash from operating activities 8,504 60,711 11,286
Purchase of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (106,669) – –
Purchase of available for sale investments – (83,127) (65,086)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income 107,539 – –
Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments – 88,298 102,515
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (1,402) (1,456) (1,707)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 18 283 358
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed – (1,060) –
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed – 358 595
Other cash flows associated with investing activities 1,191 206 32
Net cash from investing activities 677 3,502 36,707
Dividends paid and other coupon payments on equity instruments (1,658) (1,273) (1,304)
Issuance of subordinated debt 28 221 3,041 1,457
Redemption of subordinated debt 28 (3,246) (1,378) (1,143)
Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,964 2,490 1,400
Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments (3,582) (1,339) (1,587)
Net purchase of treasury shares (486) (580) (140)
Net cash from financing activities (6,787) 961 (1,317)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 4,160 (4,773) 10,473
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 6,554 60,401 57,149
Net cash from discontinued operation 41 – 101 405
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6,554 60,502 57,554
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 204,612 144,110 86,556
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 211,166 204,612 144,110
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 177,069 171,082 102,353
Loans and advances to banks with original maturity less than three months 7,676 7,592 8,850
Cash collateral to banks with original maturity less than three months 25,504 25,228 29,402
Treasury and other eligible bills with original maturity less than three months 917 682 356
Trading portfolio assets with original maturity less than three months – 28 –
Cash and cash equivalents held for sale – – 3,149

211,166 204,612 144,110

Interest received was £26,254m (2017: £21,784m; 2016: £22,099m) and interest paid was £16,124m (2017: £10,310m; 2016: £8,850m).

The Barclays Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to £4,717m 
(2017: £3,360m; 2016: £4,254m).

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid 
investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of three months or less. 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents. 

. 

<Page End><Page Start>
262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Parent company accounts
Financial statements of Barclays PLC

Statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December Notes
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Dividends received from subsidiaries 43 15,360 674 621
Net interest expense (101) (10) 5
Other income 43 923 690 334
Operating expenses (312) (96) (26)
Profit before tax 15,870 1,258 934
Taxation (64) (111) (60)
Profit after tax 15,806 1,147 874
Other comprehensive income –    60 26
Total comprehensive income 15,806 1,207 900

Profit after tax attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders 15,054 508 417
Other equity instrument holders 752 639 457
Profit after tax 15,806 1,147 874

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders 15,054 568 443
Other equity instrument holders 752 639 457
Total comprehensive income 15,806 1,207 900

For the year ended 31 December 2018, profit after tax was £15,806m (2017: £1,147m) and total comprehensive income was £15,806m 
(2017: £1,207m). Other comprehensive income of £60m in 2017 related to the gain on available for sale instruments. The Company has 
87 members of staff (2017: 90).

Balance sheet

As at 31 December Notes
2018

£m
2017

£m
Assets
Investment in subsidiaries 43 57,374 39,354
Loans and advances to subsidiaries 43 29,374 23,970
Financial investments 43 –    4,782
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 43 6,945 –    
Derivative financial instruments 43 168 161
Other assets 115 202
Total assets 93,976 68,469

Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost 576 500
Subordinated liabilities 43 6,775 6,501
Debt securities in issue 43 32,373 22,110
Other liabilities 72 153
Total liabilities 39,796 29,264

Equity
Called up share capital 29 4,283 4,265
Share premium account 29 28 17,780
Other equity instruments 29 9,633 8,943
Other reserves 394 480
Retained earnings 39,842 7,737
Total equity 54,180 39,205
Total liabilities and equity 93,976 68,469

The financial statements on pages 262 to 263 and the accompanying note on page 354 were approved by the Board of Directors on  
20 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by:

John McFarlane 
Group Chairman

James E Staley
Group Chief Executive

Tushar Morzaria
Group Finance Director 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 263

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Statement of changes in equity

Notes

Called up
 share capital 

and share
 premium

£m

Other equity
 instruments

£m

Capital 
redemption

  reserve
£m

Available 
for sale
 reservea

£m

Retained
 earnings

£m
Total equity

£m
Balance as at 31 December 2017 22,045 8,943 394 86 7,737 39,205
Effect of changes in accounting policies –    –    –    (86) 97 11
Balance as at 1 January 2018 22,045 8,943 394 –    7,834 39,216
Profit after tax and other comprehensive income –    752 –    –    15,054 15,806
Issue of new ordinary shares 88 –    –    –    –    88
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 51 –    –    –    24 75
Issue and exchange of other equity instruments –    692 –    –    (308) 384
Vesting of shares under employee share schemes –    –    –    –    (23) (23)
Dividends paid 11 –    –    –    –    (768) (768)
Other equity instruments coupons paid –    (752) –    –    143 (609)
Capital reorganisation 43 (17,873) –    –    –    17,873 –    
Other reserve movements –    (2) –    –    13 11
Balance as at 31 December 2018 4,311 9,633 394 –    39,842 54,180

Balance as at 1 January 2017 21,842 6,453 394 26 7,607 36,322
Profit after tax and other comprehensive income –    639 –    60 508 1,207
Issue of new ordinary shares 117 –    –    –    –    117
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 86 –    –    –    27 113
Issue and exchange of other equity instruments –    2,490 –    –    –    2,490
Vesting of shares under employee share schemes –    –    –    –    (11) (11)
Dividends paid 11 –    –    –    –    (509) (509)
Other equity instruments coupons paid –    (639) –    –    123 (516)
Other reserve movements –    –    –    –    (8) (8)
Balance as at 31 December 2017 22,045 8,943 394 86 7,737 39,205

Note
a As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, the available for sale reserve of £86m has been transferred to retained earnings.

Cash flow statement

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 15,870 1,258 934
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Dividends in specie (14,294) – –
Other non-cash items 653 76 62
Changes in operating assets and liabilities 55 102 37
Net cash generated from operating activities 2,284 1,436 1,033
Capital contribution to and investment in subsidiary (2,680) (2,801) (1,250)
Net cash used in investing activities (2,680) (2,801) (1,250)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,953 2,581 1,388
Redemption of other equity instruments (1,532) – –
Net increase in loans and advances to subsidiaries of the Parent (7,767) (9,707) (10,942)
Net increase in debt securities in issue 9,174 6,503 9,314
Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of subordinated debt – 3,019 1,671
Dividends paid (680) (392) (757)
Coupons paid on other equity instruments (752) (639) (457)
Net cash generated from financing activities 396 1,365 217
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – – –

Net cash generated from operating activities includes:
Dividends received 1,066 674 621
Interest (paid)/received (101) (10) 5

The Parent company's principal activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays Services Limited. Dividends received are treated as operating income. 

<Page End><Page Start>
264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

for the year ended 31 December 2018
Notes to the financial statements

1 Significant accounting policies

1. Reporting entity
These financial statements are prepared for Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries (the Barclays Group) under Section 399 of the Companies Act 
2006. The Barclays Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards, wholesale banking, investment 
banking, wealth management and investment management services. In addition, individual financial statements have been presented for the 
holding company.

2. Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays Group, and the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations (IFRICs) issued by the Interpretations Committee, as 
published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They are also in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed 
by the European Union. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and individual financial statements are 
set out below, and in the relevant notes to the financial statements. These policies have been consistently applied with the exception of the 
adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments including the early adoption of Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments 
to IFRS 9), IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment from 1 January 2018.

3. Basis of preparation
The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair 
valuation of investment property, and particular financial instruments, to the extent required or permitted under IFRS as set out in the relevant 
accounting policies. They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling (£m), the functional currency of Barclays PLC.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies 
using IFRS.

4. Accounting policies
The Barclays Group prepares financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The Barclays Group's significant accounting policies relating to 
specific financial statement items, together with a description of the accounting estimates and judgements that were critical to preparing them, 
are set out under the relevant notes. Accounting policies that affect the financial statements as a whole are set out below.

(i) Consolidation
Barclays Group applies IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over 
which Barclays PLC has control. The Barclays Group has control over another entity when the Barclays Group has all of the following: 

1) power over the relevant activities of the investee, for example through voting or other rights

2) exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and

3) the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.

The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances. The Barclays Group reassesses whether it controls 
an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Barclays Group 
for the purposes of the consolidation.

Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control has already been obtained 
and they do not result in loss of control.

As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where the Barclays Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the 
exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 with regard to preparing and filing of individual partnership 
financial statements.

Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 34, and a complete list of all subsidiaries is presented in Note 44.

(ii) Foreign currency translation
The Barclays Group applies IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency monetary balances are translated into Sterling at the period end 
exchange rates. Exchange gains and losses on such balances are taken to the income statement.  Non-monetary foreign currency balances 
are carried at historical transaction date exchange rates. 

The Barclays Group's foreign operations (including subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches) based mainly outside the UK may 
have different functional currencies. The functional currency of an operation is the currency of the main economy to which it is exposed. 

Prior to consolidation (or equity accounting) the assets and liabilities of non-Sterling operations are translated at the period end exchange 
rate and items of income, expense and other comprehensive income are translated into Sterling at the rate on the date of the transactions. 
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in currency translation reserves within equity. These are 
transferred to the income statement when the Barclays Group disposes of the entire interest in a foreign operation, when partial disposal results 
in the loss of control of an interest in a subsidiary, when an investment previously accounted for using the equity method is accounted for as 
a financial asset, or on the disposal of an autonomous foreign operation within a branch.

for the year ended 31 December 2018

This section describes Barclays Group's significant policies and critical accounting estimates that relate to the financial statements and notes 
as a whole. If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a particular note, the accounting policy and/or critical accounting 
estimate is contained with the relevant note.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 265

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

1 Significant accounting policies continued

(iii) Financial assets and liabilities
The Barclays Group applies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to the recognition, classification and measurement, and derecognition of financial 
assets and financial liabilities and the impairment of financial assets. The Barclays Group applies the requirements of IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for hedge accounting purposes. 

Recognition
The Barclays Group recognises financial assets and liabilities when it becomes a party to the terms of the contract. Trade date or settlement 
date accounting is applied depending on the classification of the financial asset.

Classification and measurement
Financial assets are classified on the basis of two criteria: 

i) the business model within which financial assets are managed, and 

ii) their contractual cash flow characteristics (whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payments of principal and interest' (SPPI)).

The Barclays Group assesses the business model criteria at a portfolio level. Information that is considered in determining the applicable 
business model includes (i) policies and objectives for the relevant portfolio, (ii) how the performance and risks of the portfolio are managed, 
evaluated and reported to management, and (iii) the frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, sales expectation for future 
periods, and the reasons for such sales.

The contractual cash flow characteristics of financial assets are assessed with reference to whether the cash flows represent SPPI. In assessing 
whether contractual cash flows are SPPI compliant, interest is defined as consideration primarily for the time value of money and the credit risk 
of the principal outstanding. The time value of money is defined as the element of interest that provides consideration only for the passage of 
time and not consideration for other risks or costs associated with holding the financial asset. Terms that could change the contractual cash 
flows so that it would not meet the condition for SPPI are considered, including: (i) contingent and leverage features, (ii) non-recourse 
arrangements and (iii) features that could modify the time value of money.

Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows, and their contractual cash flows represent SPPI.

Financial assets will be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they are held within a business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and their contractual cash flows represent SPPI.

Other financial assets are measured at fair value through profit and loss. There is an option to make an irrevocable election on initial recognition 
for non traded equity investments to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in which case dividends are recognised 
in profit or loss, but gains or losses are not reclassified to profit or loss upon derecognition, and impairment is not recognised in the 
income statement.

The accounting policy for each type of financial asset or liability is included within the relevant note for the item. The Barclays Group's policies 
for determining the fair values of the assets and liabilities are set out in Note 17.

Derecognition
The Barclays Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, from its balance sheet where the contractual rights to cash 
flows from the asset have expired, or have been transferred, usually by sale, and with them either substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset or significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset.

Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an existing 
financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms – generally a difference of 10% in the present value 
of the cash flows or a substantive qualitative amendment – is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the 
recognition of a new financial liability.

Transactions in which the Barclays Group transfers assets and liabilities, portions of them, or financial risks associated with them can be 
complex and it may not be obvious whether substantially all of the risks and rewards have been transferred. It is often necessary to perform 
a quantitative analysis. Such an analysis compares the Barclays Group's exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the transfer with its 
retained exposure after the transfer.

A cash flow analysis of this nature may require judgement. In particular, it is necessary to estimate the asset's expected future cash flows 
as well as potential variability around this expectation. The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the nature of the 
asset, with market and market-implied data used to the greatest extent possible. The potential variability around this expectation is typically 
determined by stressing underlying parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios. Probabilities are then assigned 
to each scenario. Stressed parameters may include default rates, loss severity, or prepayment rates. 

Accounting for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing
Reverse repurchase agreements (and stock borrowing or similar transaction) are a form of secured lending whereby the Barclays Group 
provides a loan or cash collateral in exchange for the transfer of collateral, generally in the form of marketable securities subject to an 
agreement to transfer the securities back at a fixed price in the future. Repurchase agreements are where the Barclays Group obtains such loans 
or cash collateral, in exchange for the transfer of collateral.

The Barclays Group purchases (a reverse repurchase agreement) or borrows securities subject to a commitment to resell or return them. 
The securities are not included in the balance sheet as the Barclays Group does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration 
paid (or cash collateral provided) is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss. 

The Barclays Group may also sell (a repurchase agreement) or lend securities subject to a commitment to repurchase or redeem them. The 
securities are retained on the balance sheet as the Barclays Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Consideration 
received (or cash collateral provided) is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit 
and loss.

<Page End><Page Start>
266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

for the year ended 31 December 2018
Notes to the financial statements

1 Significant accounting policies continued

(iv) Issued debt and equity instruments
The Barclays Group applies IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, to determine whether funding is either a financial liability (debt) or equity.

Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities if the contractual arrangement results in the Barclays Group having 
an obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset, or a variable number of equity shares, to the holder of the instrument. If this is not 
the case, the instrument is generally an equity instrument and the proceeds included in equity, net of transaction costs. Dividends and other 
returns to equity holders are recognised when paid or declared by the members at the AGM and treated as a deduction from equity.

Where issued financial instruments contain both liability and equity components, these are accounted for separately. The fair value of the debt 
is estimated first and the balance of the proceeds is included within equity.

5. New and amended standards and interpretations 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, with the exception of the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments including the early adoption of Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to IFRS 9), IFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers and the amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment from 1 January 2018. 

IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 introduces key changes in the 
following areas:
■■ Classification and measurement – requiring asset classification and measurement based upon both business model and product 

characteristics.
■■ Impairment – introducing an expected credit loss model using forward looking information which replaces an incurred loss model. 

The expected credit loss model introduces a three-stage approach to impairment as follows:

Stage 1 – the recognition of 12 month expected credit losses (ECL), that is the portion of lifetime expected credit losses from default events 
that are expected within 12 months of the reporting date, if credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition; 

Stage 2 – lifetime expected credit losses for financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition; and  

Stage 3 – lifetime expected credit losses for financial instruments which are credit impaired. 

Refer to Note 7 for further details regarding the impairment requirements of IFRS 9.

As required by IFRS 9 the Barclays Group applied IFRS 9 retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, 
and comparative periods have not been restated; for more detail refer to Note 42. 

IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 establishes a more 
systematic approach for revenue measurement and recognition by introducing a five-step model governing revenue recognition. The five-step 
model includes: 1) identifying the contract with the customer, 2) identifying each of the performance obligations included in the contract, 3) 
determining the amount of consideration in the contract, 4) allocating the consideration to each of the identified performance obligations and 
5) recognising revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. The Barclays Group elected the cumulative effect transition method with 
a transition adjustment calculated as of 1 January 2018, and recognised in retained earnings without restating comparative periods. There were 
no significant impacts from the adoption of IFRS 15 in relation to the timing of when the Barclays Group recognises revenues or when revenue 
should be recognised gross as a principal or net as an agent; for more detail refer to Note 42.

IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment – Amendments to IFRS 2
The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment that address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the 
measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction; the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement 
features for withholding tax obligations; and accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment 
transaction changes its classification from cash settled to equity settled. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018. Adoption of the amendments did not have a significant impact on the Barclays Group.

Future accounting developments
There have been, and are expected to be, a number of significant changes to the Barclays Group's financial reporting after 2018 as a result 
of amended or new accounting standards that have been or will be issued by the IASB. The most significant of these are as follows:  

IFRS 16 – Leases
In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, which was subsequently endorsed by the EU in November 2017, and will replace IAS 17 Leases 
for period beginning on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 will apply to all leases with the exception of licenses of intellectual property, rights held 
by licensing agreement within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, service concession arrangements, leases of biological assets within the 
scope of IAS 41 Agriculture, and leases of minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources. A lessee may elect not to apply 
IFRS 16 to remaining assets within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. 

IFRS 16 will not result in a significant change to lessor accounting; however, for lessee accounting there will no longer be a distinction between 
operating and finance leases. Lessees will be required to recognise both:
■■ a lease liability, measured at the present value of remaining cash flows on the lease, and
■■ a right of use (ROU) asset, measured at the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any lease payments made prior 

to commencement date, initial direct costs, and estimated costs of restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the lease, 
less any lease incentives received. 

There is a recognition exception for leases with a term not exceeding 12 months which allows the lessee to apply similar accounting as an 
operating lease under IAS 17. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 267

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

1 Significant accounting policies continued

Subsequently the lease liability will increase for the accrual of interest, resulting in a constant rate of return throughout the life of the lease, 
and reduce when payments are made. The right of use asset will amortise to the income statement over the life of the lease. The Barclays 
Group IFRS 16 implementation and governance programme has been led by Finance with representation from all impacted departments. The 
project has identified the contracts impacted by IFRS 16, which are predominantly existing property leases. Other lease types are not material. 
The project has also established appropriate accounting policies, determined the appropriate transition options to apply, and updated Finance 
systems and processes to reflect the new accounting and disclosure requirements.

As permitted by the standard, the Barclays Group intends to apply IFRS 16 on a retrospective basis but to take advantage of the option not to 
restate comparative periods by applying the modified retrospective approach. The Barclays Group intends to take advantage of the following 
transition options available under the modified retrospective approach:
■■ To calculate the right of use asset equal to the lease liability, adjusted for prepaid or accrued payments.
■■ To rely on the previous assessment of whether leases are onerous in accordance with IAS 37 immediately before the date of initial application 

as an alternative to performing an impairment review. The Barclays Group will adjust the carrying amount of the ROU asset at the date of 
initial application by the previous carrying amount of its onerous lease provision.

■■ Apply the recognition exception for leases with a term not exceeding 12 months.
■■ Use hindsight in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.

The expected impact of adopting IFRS 16 is an increase in assets of £1.6bn, an increase in liabilities of £1.6bn with no material impact on 
retained earnings. This impact assessment has been estimated under an interim control environment. The implementation of the 
comprehensive end state control environment will continue as the Barclays Group introduces business as usual controls through 2019.

IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts
In May 2017, the IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, a comprehensive new accounting standard for insurance contracts covering 
recognition and measurement, presentation and disclosure. Once effective, IFRS 17 will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts that was issued 
in 2005.

IFRS 17 applies to all types of insurance contracts (i.e. life, non-life, direct insurance and re-insurance), regardless of the type of entities that 
issue them, as well as to certain guarantees and financial instruments with discretionary participation features. A few scope exceptions will 
apply. The standard is currently effective from 1 January 2021, and the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU. The Barclays Group 
is currently assessing the expected impact of adopting this standard.

IFRIC Interpretation 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment
IFRIC 23 clarifies the application of IAS 12 to accounting for income tax treatments that have yet to be accepted by tax authorities, in scenarios 
where it may be unclear how tax law applies to a particular transaction or circumstance, or whether a taxation authority will accept an entity's 
tax treatment. The effective date is 1 January 2019. The Barclays Group has considered the guidance included within the interpretation and 
concluded that the prescribed approach under IFRIC 23 is not expected to have a material impact on the Barclays Group's financial position. 

IAS 12 – Income Taxes – Amendments to IAS 12
In December 2017, as part of the Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle, the IASB amended IAS 12 in order to clarify the 
accounting treatment of the income tax consequences of dividends. Effective from 1 January 2019 the tax consequences of all payments on 
financial instruments that are classified as equity for accounting purposes, where those payments are considered to be a distribution of profit, 
will be included in, and will reduce, the income statement tax charge. Refer to Note 9 for the expected impact of adopting the amendments 
of IAS 12. 

IAS 19 – Employee Benefits – Amendments to IAS 19
In February 2018 the IASB issued amendments to the guidance in IAS 19 Employee Benefits, in connection with accounting for plan 
amendments, curtailments and settlements. The amendments must be applied to plan amendments, curtailments or settlements occurring on 
or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins on or after 1 January 2019. The amendments have not yet been endorsed 
by the EU. Adoption of the amendments is not expected to have significant impact on the Barclays Group.

6. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates. It also requires management to exercise 
judgement in applying the accounting policies. The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements are highlighted under the relevant note. Critical accounting estimates and 
judgements are disclosed in:
■■ Credit impairment charges on page 273
■■ Tax on page 278
■■ Fair value of financial instruments on page 291
■■ Pensions and post-retirement benefits – obligations on page 331
■■ Provisions including conduct and legal, competition and regulatory matters on page 313.

7. Other disclosures
To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, certain disclosures required under IFRS have 
been included within the Risk review section as follows:
■■ Credit risk on pages 137 to 138 and 149 to 175 
■■ Market risk on pages 139 and 176 to 180 
■■ Treasury and capital risk – liquidity on pages 140 and 183 to 196
■■ Treasury and capital risk – capital on pages 141 and 197 to 207.

These disclosures are covered by the Audit opinion (included on pages 248 to 255) where referenced as audited. 

<Page End><Page Start>
268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

2 Segmental reporting

Presentation of segmental reporting
The Barclays Group's segmental reporting is in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, and has been identified as the chief operating decision maker. All transactions between business 
segments are conducted on an arm's-length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head Office. Income and 
expenses directly associated with each segment are included in determining business segment performance.

Barclays Group is a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank and for segmental reporting purposes it defines its two operating divisions 
as Barclays UK and Barclays International.
■■ Barclays UK which offers everyday products and services to retail customers and small to medium sized enterprises based in the UK. 

The division includes the UK Personal banking, UK Business banking and the Barclaycard consumer UK business.
■■ Barclays International which delivers products and services designed for our larger corporate, wholesale and international banking clients. 

The division includes the large UK Corporate business; the international Corporate and Wealth businesses; the Investment Bank; the 
international Barclaycard business; and Barclaycard Business Solutions.

The below table also includes Head Office which comprises head office and central support functions (including treasury) and businesses 
in transition.

Analysis of results by business

Barclays UK 
£m

Barclays
 International 

£m

Head
 Office

£m

Group 
results

£m
For the year ended 31 December 2018
Total incomea 7,383 14,026 (273) 21,136
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (826) (658) 16 (1,468)
Net operating income/(expenses) 6,557 13,368 (257) 19,668
Operating costs (4,075) (9,324) (228) (13,627)
UK bank levy (46) (210) (13) (269)
GMP charge – – (140) (140)
Litigation and conduct (483) (127) (1,597) (2,207)
Total operating expenses (4,604) (9,661) (1,978) (16,243)
Other net income/(expenses) 3 68 (2) 69
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,956 3,775 (2,237) 3,494
Total assets (£bn) 249.7 862.1 21.5 1,133.3
Number of employees (full time equivalent)b 22,600 12,400 48,500 83,500

Barclays UK 
£m

Barclays
 International 

£m

Head
 Officec

£m

Barclays
 Non-Cored

£m

Group 
results

£m

For the year ended 31 December 2017
Total income 7,383 14,382 (159) (530) 21,076
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (783) (1,506) (17) (30) (2,336)
Net operating income/(expenses) 6,600 12,876 (176) (560) 18,740
Operating costs (4,030) (9,321) (277) (256) (13,884)
UK bank levy (59) (265) (41) – (365)
Litigation and conduct (759) (269) (151) (28) (1,207)
Total operating expenses (4,848) (9,855) (469) (284) (15,456)
Other net (expenses)/incomee (5) 254 (189) 197 257
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,747 3,275 (834) (647) 3,541
Total assets (£bn) 237.4 856.1 39.7 – 1,133.2
Number of employees (full time equivalent)b 22,800 11,500 45,600 – 79,900

Notes
a  £351m of certain legacy capital instrument funding costs are now charged to Head Office, the impact of which would have been materially the same if the charges had been          

included in full year 2017.
b As a result of the establishment of Barclays Execution Services in September 2017, employees who are now employed by Barclays Execution Services and who were previously 

allocated to, or were within, Barclays UK and Barclays International are now reported in Head Office.
c The reintegration of Non-Core assets on 1 July 2017 resulted in the transfer of c.£9bn of assets into Head Office relating to a portfolio of Italian mortgages. The portfolio 

generated a loss before tax of £37m in the second half of the year and included assets of £9bn as at 31 December 2017. 
d The Non-Core segment was closed on 1 July 2017 with the residual assets and liabilities reintegrated into, and associated financial performance subsequently reported in, Barclays 

UK, Barclays International and Head Office. Financial results up until 30 June 2017 are reflected in the Non-Core segment for 2017. Comparative results have not been restated.
e Other net income/(expenses) represents the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, profit (or loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 

and gains on acquisitions. 

The notes included in this section focus on the results and performance of the Barclays Group. Information on the income generated, 
expenditure incurred, segmental performance, tax, earnings per share and dividends are included here. For further detail on performance, 
see income statement commentary within Financial review (unaudited) on page 227.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 269

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

2 Segmental reporting continued

Analysis of results by business

Barclays UK 
£m

Barclays
 International 

£m

Head
 Office

£m

Barclays
 Non-Core

£m

Group 
results

£m
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Total income 7,517 14,995 103 (1,164) 21,451
Credit impairment charges and other provisions (896) (1,355) – (122) (2,373)
Net operating income/(expenses) 6,621 13,640 103 (1,286) 19,078
Operating costs (3,792) (9,129) (135) (1,509) (14,565)
UK bank levy (48) (284) (2) (76) (410)
Litigation and conduct (1,042) (48) (27) (246) (1,363)
Total operating expenses (4,882) (9,461) (164) (1,831) (16,338)
Other net (expenses)/incomea (1) 32 128 331 490
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 1,738 4,211 67 (2,786) 3,230
Total assets (£bn)b 209.6 648.5 75.2 279.7 1,213.0
Number of employees (full time equivalent)c  36,000  36,900  100  5,500  119,300

Notes
a Other net income/(expenses) represents the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, profit (or loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures,  

and gains on acquisitions.
b Africa Banking assets held for sale were reported in Head Office for 2016.
c Number of employees included 40,800 in relation to Africa Banking for 2016.

Income by geographic region

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Continuing operations
United Kingdom 11,050 11,190 11,096
Europe 1,649 1,663 2,087
Americas 7,615 7,443 7,278
Africa and Middle East 253 251 419
Asia  569 529 571
Total 21,136 21,076 21,451

Income from individual countries which represent more than 5% of total incomea

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Continuing operations
United Kingdom 11,050 11,190 11,096
United States 7,291 6,871 6,876

Note
a  Total income is based on counterparty location. Income from each single external customer does not amount to 10% or greater of the Barclays Group total income.

<Page End><Page Start>
270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

3 Net interest income

Accounting for interest income and expenses
Interest income on loans and advances at amortised cost, and interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost, are calculated 
using the effective interest method which allocates interest, and direct and incremental fees and costs, over the expected lives of the assets 
and liabilities.

The effective interest method requires the Barclays Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customers' 
behaviour, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as the expected lives of the assets and liabilities. 

Barclays Group incurs certain costs to originate credit card balances with the most significant being co-brand partner fees. To the extent these 
costs are attributed to customers that continuously carry an outstanding balance (revolvers), they are capitalised and subsequently included 
within the calculation of the effective interest rate. They are amortised to interest income over the period of expected repayment of the originated 
balance. Costs attributed to customers that settle their outstanding balances each period (transactors) are deferred on the balance sheet as a cost 
of obtaining a contract and amortised to fee and commission expense over the life of the customer relationship (refer to Note 4). There are no 
other individual estimates involved in the calculation of effective interest rates that are material to the results or financial position. 

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Cash and balances at central banks 1,123 583 186
Loans and advances at amortised cost 12,073 12,069 13,558
Financial investments – 754 740
Fair value through other comprehensive income 1,029 – –
Other 316 225 57
Interest income 14,541 13,631 14,541
Deposits at amortised cost (2,250) (1,493) (1,779)
Debt securities in issue (1,677) (915) (990)
Subordinated liabilities (1,223) (1,223) (1,104)
Other (329) (155) (131)
Interest expense (5,479) (3,786) (4,004)
Net interest income 9,062 9,845 10,537

Interest income presented above represents interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method.

Costs to originate credit card balances of £596m (2017: £497m; 2016: £480m) have been amortised to interest income during the year.

Interest income includes £53m (2017: £48m; 2016: £75m) accrued on impaired loans.

Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14 amounting to £5m loss (2017: £43m loss; 2016: £71m gain).

4 Net fee and commission income

Accounting for net fee and commission income under IFRS 15 effective from 1 January 2018
The Barclays Group applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard establishes a five-step model governing revenue 
recognition. The five-step model requires Barclays Group to (i) identify the contract with the customer, (ii) identify each of the performance 
obligations included in the contract, (iii) determine the amount of consideration in the contract, (iv) allocate the consideration to each of the 
identified performance obligations and (v) recognise revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied.

Barclays Group recognises fee and commission income charged for services provided by the Barclays Group as the services are provided, 
for example on completion of the underlying transaction. 

Accounting for net fee and commission income under IAS 18 for 2017 and 2016 
The Barclays Group applies IAS 18 Revenue. Fees and commissions charged for services provided or received by the Barclays Group are 
recognised as the services are provided, for example on completion of the underlying transaction.

Fee and commission income is disaggregated below by fee types that reflect the nature of the services offered across the Barclays Group and 
operating segments, in accordance with IFRS 15. It includes a total for fees in scope of IFRS 15. Refer to Note 2 for more detailed information 
about operating segments.

2018

Barclays UK
£m

Barclays 
International

£m
Head Office

£m
Total

£m
Fee type
Transactional 1,102 2,614 – 3,716
Advisory 209 850 – 1,059
Brokerage and execution 153 1,073 – 1,226
Underwriting and syndication – 2,462 – 2,462
Other 78 207 27 312
Total revenue from contracts with customers 1,542 7,206 27 8,775
Other non-contract fee income – 118 – 118
Fee and commission income 1,542 7,324 27 8,893
Fee and commission expense (360) (1,707) (17) (2,084)
Net fee and commission income 1,182 5,617 10 6,809

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 271

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

4 Net fee and commission income continued
2017a

£m
2016a

£m

Fee and commission income
Banking, investment management and credit related fees and commissions 8,622 8,452
Foreign exchange commission 129 118
Fee and commission income 8,751 8,570
Fee and commission expense (1,937) (1,802)
Net fee and commission income 6,814 6,768

Note
a The Barclays Group elected the cumulative effect transition method on adoption of IFRS 15 for 1 January 2018, and recognised in retained earnings without restating comparative 

periods. The comparative figures are reported under IAS 18.

Fee types
Transactional
Transactional fees are service charges on deposit accounts, cash management services and transactional processing fees including interchange 
and merchant fee income generated from credit and bank card usage. Transaction and processing fees are recognised at the point in time the 
transaction occurs or service is performed. They include banking services such as Automated Teller Machine (ATM) fees, wire transfer fees, 
balance transfer fees, overdraft or late fees and foreign exchange fees, among others. Interchange and merchant fees are recognised upon 
settlement of the card transaction payment.

Barclays incurs certain card related costs including those related to cardholder reward programmes and various payments made to co-brand 
partners. To the extent cardholder reward programmes costs are attributed to customers that settle their outstanding balance each period 
(transactors) they are expensed when incurred and presented in fee and commission expense while costs related to customers who continuously 
carry an outstanding balance (revolvers) are included in the effective interest rate of the receivable (refer to Note 3). Payments to partners for 
new cardholder account originations for transactor accounts are deferred as costs to obtain a contract under IFRS 15 while those costs related 
to revolver accounts are included in the effective interest rate of the receivable (refer to Note 3). Those costs deferred under IFRS 15 are capitalised 
and amortised over the estimated cardholder relationship. Payments to co-brand partners based on revenue sharing are presented as a reduction 
of fee and commission income while payments based on profitability are presented in fee and commission expense.   

Advisory
Advisory fees are generated from wealth management services and investment banking advisory services related to mergers, acquisitions and 
financial restructurings. Wealth management advisory fees primarily consists of asset-based fees for advisory accounts of wealth management 
clients and are based on the market value of client assets. They are earned over the period the services are provided and are generally recognised 
quarterly when the market value of client assets is determined. Investment banking advisory fees are recognised at the point in time when the 
services related to the transaction have been completed under the terms of the engagement. Investment banking advisory costs are recognised 
as incurred in fee and commission expense if direct and incremental to the advisory services or otherwise recognised in operating expenses.

Brokerage and execution
Brokerage and execution fees are earned for executing client transactions with various exchanges and over-the-counter markets and assisting 
clients in clearing transactions. Brokerage and execution fees are recognised at the point in time the associated service has been completed which 
is generally the trade date of the transaction.

Underwriting and syndication
Underwriting and syndication fees are earned for the distribution of client equity or debt securities and the arrangement and administration 
of a loan syndication. This includes commitment fees to provide loan financing. Underwriting fees are generally recognised on trade date if there 
is no remaining contingency, such as the transaction being conditional on closing of an acquisition or other transaction. Underwriting costs are 
deferred and recognised in fee and commission expense when the associated underwriting fees are recorded. Syndication fees are earned for 
arranging and administering a loan syndication; however, the associated fee may be subject to variability until the loan has been syndicated to 
other syndicate members or until other contingencies (such as a successful M&A closing) have been resolved and therefore the fee revenue 
is deferred until the uncertainty is resolved.

Underwriting and syndication fees were previously reported on a net basis in the income statement. Following the adoption of IFRS 15, expenses 
associated with underwriting and syndication of £38m are now reported in fee and commission expense.

Including in the underwriting and syndication, commitment fees to provide loan financing includes fees which are not presented as part of the 
effective interest rate of a loan in accordance with IFRS 9. Loan commitment fees included as IFRS 15 revenues are fees for loan commitments 
that are not expected to fund, fees received as compensation for unfunded commitments and the applicable portion of fees received for 
a revolving loan facility, which for that period, are undrawn. Such commitment fees are recognised over time through to the contractual maturity 
of the commitment.

Contract assets and contract liabilities
The Barclays Group had no material contract assets or contract liabilities as at 31 December 2018.

Impairment on fee receivables and contract assets
During 2018, there have been no material impairments recognised in relation to fees receivable and contract assets. Fees in relation to 
transactional business can be added to outstanding customer balances. These amounts may be subsequently impaired as part of the overall 
loans and advances balance.

Remaining performance obligations
The Barclays Group applies the practical expedient of IFRS 15 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that 
have original expected durations of one year or less or because the Barclays Group has a right to consideration that corresponds directly with 
the value of the service provided to the client or customer.

<Page End><Page Start>
272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

4 Net fee and commission income continued
Costs incurred in obtaining or fulfilling a contract
The Barclays Group expects that incremental costs of obtaining a contract such as success fee and commission fees paid are recoverable and 
therefore capitalised such contract costs in the amount of £125.4m at 31 December 2018.

Capitalised contract costs are amortised based on the transfer of services to which the asset relates which typically ranges over the expected 
life of the relationship. In 2018, the amount of amortisation was £30.4m and there was no impairment loss recognised in connection with the 
capitalised contract costs.

5 Net trading income

Accounting for net trading income
In accordance with IFRS 9, trading positions are held at fair value, and the resulting gains and losses are included in the income statement, 
together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.

Income arises from both the sale and purchase of trading positions, margins which are achieved through market making and customer 
business and from changes in fair value caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.

Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments designated or mandatorily at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income 
statement are included in net trading income where the business model is to manage assets and liabilities on a fair value basis which includes 
use of derivatives or where an instrument is designated at fair value to eliminate an accounting mismatch and the related instrument's gain 
and losses are reported in trading income.

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Net gains from financial instruments held for trading 3,292 2,388 2,426
Net gains from financial instruments designated at fair value 267 1,112 377
Net gains from financial instruments mandatorily at fair value 1,007 – –
Own credit lossesa – – (35)
Net trading income 4,566 3,500 2,768

Note
a Following the early adoption of the own credit provisions of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, own credit on financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss, which was 

previously reported in income statement, is now recognised in other comprehensive income.

6 Net investment income

Accounting for net investment income 
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive the dividend has been established. Other accounting policies relating to net investment 
income are set out in Note 13 and Note 15.

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Net gains from disposal of available for sale investmentsa – 298 912
Net gains from disposal of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 158 – –
Dividend income 91 48 8
Net gains from financial instruments designated at fair valueb – 338 158
Net gains from financial instruments mandatorily at fair value 226 – –
Other investment income 110 177 246
Net investment income 585 861 1,324

Notes
a  Following the adoption of IFRS 9, available for sale classification is no longer applicable. 
b  Following the adoption of IFRS 9, this category only includes financial assets designated at fair value to eliminate or reduce an accounting mismatch. The net gains on such 

instruments are recognised in net trading income which helps to reduce an income statement presentation mismatch.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 273

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions

Accounting for the impairment of financial assets under IFRS 9 effective from 1 January 2018   
Impairment  
The Barclays Group is required to recognise expected credit losses (ECLs) based on unbiased forward-looking information for all financial 
assets at amortised cost, lease receivables, debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan commitments and 
financial guarantee contracts. 

At the reporting date, an allowance (or provision for loan commitments and financial guarantees) is required for the 12 month (Stage 1) 
ECLs. If the credit risk has significantly increased since initial recognition (Stage 2), or if the financial instrument is credit impaired (Stage 3), 
an allowance (or provision) should be recognised for the lifetime ECLs. 

The measurement of ECL is calculated using three main components: (i) probability of default (PD) (ii) loss given default (LGD) and (iii) the 
exposure at default (EAD).  

The 12 month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12 month PD, LGD and the EAD. The 12 month and lifetime PDs represent the PD occurring 
over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument respectively. The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking 
into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to the default event together with any expected drawdowns 
of committed facilities. The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, 
the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and the time value of money.  

Determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition:

The Barclays Group assesses when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred based on quantitative and qualitative assessments. 
The credit risk of an exposure is considered to have significantly increased when:

i) Quantitative test
The annualised lifetime PD has increased by more than an agreed threshold relative to the equivalent at origination.

PD deterioration thresholds are defined as percentage increases, and are set at an origination score band and segment level to ensure the test 
appropriately captures significant increases in credit risk at all risk levels. Generally, thresholds are inversely correlated to the origination PD, 
i.e. as the origination PD increases, the threshold value reduces.

The assessment of the point at which a PD increase is deemed ‘significant', is based upon analysis of the portfolios' risk profile against 
a common set of principles and performance metrics (consistent across both retail and wholesale businesses), incorporating expert credit 
judgement where appropriate. 

Wholesale assets apply a 100% increase in PD and 0.2% PD floor to determine a significant increase in credit risk.

Retail assets apply bespoke relative increase and absolute PD thresholds based on product type and origination PD. Thresholds are subject to 
maximums defined by Barclays Group policy and typically apply minimum relative thresholds of 50–100% and a maxiumum relative threshold 
of 400%.

For existing/historical exposures where origination point scores or data are no longer available or do not represent a comparable estimate 
of lifetime PD, a proxy origination score is defined, based upon: 
■■ back-population of the approved lifetime PD score either to origination date or, where this is not feasible, as far back as possible, 

(subject to a data start point no later than 1 January 2015), or
■■ use of available historical account performance data and other customer information, to derive a comparable ‘proxy' estimation 

of origination PD.

ii) Qualitative test
Relevant for accounts that meet the portfolio's ‘high risk' criteria and are subject to closer credit monitoring.

High risk customers may not be in arrears but either through an event or an observed behaviour exhibit credit distress. The definition and 
assessment of high risk includes as wide a range of information as reasonably available, such as industry and Group-wide customer level data, 
including but not limited to bureau scores and high consumer indebtedness index, wherever possible or relevant.

Whilst the high risk populations applied for IFRS 9 impairment purposes are aligned with risk management processes, they are also regularly 
reviewed and validated to ensure that they capture any incremental segments where there is evidence of credit deterioration.

iii) Backstop criteria
Relevant for accounts that are more than 30 calendar days past due. The 30 days past due criteria is a backstop rather than a primary driver 
of moving exposures into Stage 2.

Exposures will move back to Stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk. This means that, at 
a minimum: all payments must be up-to-date, the PD deterioration test is no longer met, the account is no longer classified as high risk, 
and the customer has evidenced an ability to maintain future payments.

Management overlays and other exceptions to model outputs are applied only if consistent with the objective of identifying significant 
increases in credit risk.

<Page End><Page Start>
274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued

Forward-looking information
The measurement of ECL involves complexity and judgement, including estimation of PD, LGD, a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, 
estimation of expected lives (where contractual life is not appropriate), and estimation of EAD and assessing significant increases in credit risk.

Credit losses are the expected cash shortfalls from what is contractually due over the expected life of the financial instrument, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate (EIR). ECLs are the unbiased probability-weighted credit losses determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes and considering future economic conditions. 

Barclays Group uses a five-scenario model to calculate ECL. An external consensus forecast is assembled from key sources, including HM 
Treasury, Bloomberg and the Urban Land Institute, which forms the baseline scenario. In addition, two adverse scenarios (Downside 1 and 
Downside 2) and two favourable scenarios (Upside 1 and Upside 2) are derived, with associated probability weightings. The adverse scenarios 
are calibrated to a similar severity to internal stress tests, whilst also considering IFRS 9 specific sensitivities and non-linearity. Downside 2 is 
benchmarked to the Bank of England's annual cyclical scenarios and to the most severe scenario from Moody's inventory, but is not designed 
to be the same. The favourable scenarios are calibrated to be symmetric to the adverse scenarios, subject to a ceiling calibrated to relevant 
recent favourable benchmark scenarios. The scenarios include six economic core variables, (GDP, unemployment and House Price Index (HPI) 
in both the UK and US markets), and expanded variables using statistical models based on historical correlations. All five scenarios converge 
to a steady state after eight years.

The methodology for estimating probability weights for each of the scenarios involves a comparison of the distribution of key historic UK and 
US macroeconomic variables against the forecast paths of the five scenarios. The methodology works such that the baseline (reflecting current 
consensus outlook) has the highest weight and the weights of adverse and favourable scenarios depend on the deviation from the baseline; the 
further from the baseline, the smaller the weight. A single set of five scenarios is used across all portfolios and all five weights are normalised to 
equate to 100%. The impacts across the portfolios are different because of the sensitivities of each of the portfolios to specific macroeconomic 
variables, for example, mortgages are highly sensitive to house prices and base rates, credit cards and unsecured consumer loans are highly 
sensitive to unemployment.

Definition of default, credit impaired assets, write-offs, and interest income recognition
The definition of default for the purpose of determining ECLs, and for internal credit risk management purposes, has been aligned to the 
Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 definition of default, to maintain a consistent approach with IFRS 9 and associated regulatory guidance. 
The Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 definition of default considers indicators that the debtor is unlikely to pay, includes exposures in 
forbearance and is no later than when the exposure is more than 90 days past due or 180 days past due in the case of UK mortgages. When 
exposures are identified as credit impaired or purchased or originated as such interest income is calculated on the carrying value net of the 
impairment allowance.

Credit impaired is when the exposure has defaulted which is also anticipated to align to when an exposure is identified as individually impaired.

Uncollectable loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Barclays Group's internal processes 
and when all reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited to the income statement. The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of subjective judgement. Nevertheless, 
a write-off will often be prompted by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other formal recovery action, which 
makes it possible to establish that some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.

Loan modifications and renegotiations that are not credit-impaired
When modification of a loan agreement occurs as a result of commercial restructuring activity rather than due to the credit risk of the borrower, 
an assessment must be performed to determine whether the terms of the new agreement are substantially different from the terms of the 
existing agreement. This assessment considers both the change in cash flows arising from the modified terms as well as the change in overall 
instrument risk profile.  

Where terms are substantially different, the existing loan will be derecognised and a new loan will be recognised at fair value.

Where terms are not substantially different, the loan carrying value will be adjusted to reflect the present value of modified cash flows 
discounted at the original EIR, with any resulting gain or loss recognised immediately within the income statement as a modification gain 
or loss. 

Expected life
Lifetime ECLs must be measured over the expected life. This is restricted to the maximum contractual life and takes into account expected 
prepayment, extension, call and similar options. The exceptions are certain revolver financial instruments, such as credit cards and bank 
overdrafts, that include both a drawn and an undrawn component where the entity's contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the 
undrawn commitment does not limit the entity's exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For revolving facilities, expected 
life is analytically derived to reflect behavioural life of the asset, i.e. the full period over which the business expects to be exposed to credit risk. 
Behavioural life is typically based upon historical analysis of the average time to default, closure or withdrawal of facility. Where data is 
insufficient or analysis inconclusive, an additional ‘maturity factor' may be incorporated to reflect the full estimated life of the exposures, based 
upon experienced judgement and/or peer analysis. Potential future modifications of contracts are not taken into account when determining 
the expected life or EAD until they occur.

Discounting
ECLs are discounted at the EIR at initial recognition or an approximation thereof and consistent with income recognition. For loan 
commitments the EIR is the rate that is expected to apply when the loan is drawn down and a financial asset is recognised. Issued financial 
guarantee contracts are discounted at the risk free rate. Lease receivables are discounted at the rate implicit in the lease. For variable/floating 
rate financial assets, the spot rate at the reporting date is used and projections of changes in the variable rate over the expected life are not 
made to estimate future interest cash flows or for discounting.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 275

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued

Modelling techniques
ECLs are calculated by multiplying three main components, being the PD, LGD and the EAD, discounted at the original EIR. The regulatory Basel 
Committee of Banking Supervisors (BCBS) ECL calculations are leveraged for IFRS 9 modelling but adjusted for key differences which include:
■■ BCBS requires 12 month through the economic cycle losses whereas IFRS 9 requires 12 months or lifetime point in time losses based on 

conditions at the reporting date and multiple forecasts of the future economic conditions over the expected lives;
■■ IFRS 9 models do not include certain conservative BCBS model floors and downturn assessments and require discounting to the reporting 

date at the original EIR rather than using the cost of capital to the date of default;
■■ Management adjustments are made to modelled output to account for situations where known or expected risk factors and information 

have not been considered in the modelling process, for example forecast economic scenarios for uncertain political events; and
■■ ECL is measured at the individual financial instrument level, however a collective approach where financial instruments with similar risk 

characteristics are grouped together, with apportionment to individual financial instruments, is used where effects can only be seen at 
a collective level, for example for forward-looking information.

For the IFRS 9 impairment assessment, Barclays Group's risk models are used to determine the PD, LGD and EAD. For Stage 2 and 3, Barclays 
Group applies lifetime PDs but uses 12 month PDs for Stage 1. The ECL drivers of PD, EAD and LGD are modelled at an account level which 
considers vintage, among other credit factors. Also, the assessment of significant increase in credit risk is based on the initial lifetime PD curve, 
which accounts for the different credit risk underwritten over time.

Forbearance
A financial asset is subject to forbearance when it is modified due to the credit distress of the borrower. A modification made to the terms 
of an asset due to forbearance will typically be assessed as a non-substantial modification that does not result in derecognition of the original 
loan, except in circumstances where debt is exchanged for equity. 

Both performing and non-performing forbearance assets are classified as Stage 3 except where it is established that the concession granted 
has not resulted in diminished financial obligation and that no other regulatory definition of default criteria has been triggered, in which 
case the asset is classified as Stage 2. The minimum probationary period for non-performing forbearance is 12 months and for performing 
forbearance, 24 months. Hence, a minimum of 36 months is required for non-performing forbearance to move out of a forborne state.

No financial instrument in forbearance can transfer back to Stage 1 until all of the Stage 2 thresholds are no longer met and can only move out 
of Stage 3 when no longer credit impaired.

Accounting for the impairment of financial assets under IAS 39 for 2017 and 2016 
Loans and other assets held at amortised cost 
In accordance with IAS 39, the Barclays Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that loan assets will not 
be recovered in full and, wherever necessary, recognises an impairment loss in the income statement. 

An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of events that have occurred and these have adversely 
impacted the estimated future cash flows from the assets. These events include:
■■ becoming aware of significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor
■■ a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments
■■ the Barclays Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower's financial difficulty, grants a concession that it would not 

otherwise consider
■■ it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
■■ the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties
■■ observable data at a portfolio level indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, although the decrease 

cannot yet be ascribed to individual financial assets in the portfolio – such as adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the 
portfolio or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.

Impairment assessments are conducted individually for significant assets, which comprise all wholesale customer loans and larger retail 
business loans, and collectively for smaller loans and for portfolio level risks, such as country or sectoral risks. For the purposes of the 
assessment, loans with similar credit risk characteristics are grouped together – generally on the basis of their product type, industry, 
geographical location, collateral type, past due status and other factors relevant to the evaluation of expected future cash flows.

The impairment assessment includes estimating the expected future cash flows from the asset or the group of assets, which are then 
discounted using the original effective interest rate calculated for the asset. If this is lower than the carrying value of the asset or the portfolio, 
an impairment allowance is raised.

If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of the 
reversal is recognised in the income statement.

Following impairment, interest income continues to be recognised at the original effective interest rate on the restated carrying amount, 
representing the unwind of the discount of the expected cash flows, including the principal due on non-accrual loans.

Uncollectable loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Barclays Group's internal processes 
when all reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
to the income statement.

<Page End><Page Start>
276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued

Available for sale financial assets
Impairment of available for sale debt instruments
Debt instruments are assessed for impairment in the same way as loans. If impairment is deemed to have occurred, the cumulative decline 
in the fair value of the instrument that has previously been recognised in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and recognised 
in the income statement. This may be reversed if there is evidence that the circumstances of the issuer have improved.

Impairment of available for sale equity instruments
Where there has been a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of an equity instrument below its acquisition cost, it is deemed to be 
impaired. The cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and 
recognised in the income statement.

Increases in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Further declines 
in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised in the income statement.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
IFRS 9 impairment involves several important areas of judgement, including estimating forward looking modelled parameters (PD, LGD and 
EAD), developing a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimating expected lives and assessing significant increases in credit risk, 
based on the Barclays Group's experience of managing credit risk. The determination of expected life is most material for Barclays credit card 
portfolios which is obtained via behavioural life analysis. As a result, the expected life of credit card portfolios is modelled over 10 years, to 
materially capture the risk of these facilities.

Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogenous assets with similar risk characteristics 
where credit scoring techniques are generally used, the impairment allowance is calculated using forward looking modelled parameters which 
are typically run at account level. There are many models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or customer category. Judgement 
and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised. The impairment allowance 
reflected in the financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be reasonable and supportable. The impairment charge 
reflected in the income statement for retail portfolios is £1,689m (2017: £2,095m; 2016: £2,053m) of the total impairment charge on loans 
and advances.

For individually significant assets in Stage 3, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that 
have a bearing on the expected future cash flows across a range of economic scenarios are taken into account. These considerations can be 
subjective and can include the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, the Barclays Group's position relative 
to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out process. The economic scenarios 
considered are the same as those used in the Group's ECL models. The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value 
of the discounted expected future cash flows (discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Furthermore, 
judgements change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the 
impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have 
a direct impact on the impairment charge. The impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in relation to wholesale portfolios is 
a release of £99m (2017: £238m; 2016: £299m) of the total impairment charge on loans and advances. Further information on impairment 
allowances, impairment charges and related credit information is set out within the Risk review on page 153.

2018 2017a 2016a

Impairment 
charges

£m
Recoveriesb

£m
Total

£m

Impairment
 charges

£m
Recoveriesb

£m
Total

£m

Impairment
charges

£m
Recoveriesb

£m
Total

£m

Loans and advances 1,785 (195) 1,590 2,654 (334) 2,320 2,708 (365) 2,343
Provision for undrawn 
contractually committed facilities 
and guarantees provided (125) – (125) 13 – 13 9 – 9
Loans impairment 1,660 (195) 1,465 2,667 (334) 2,333 2,717 (365) 2,352
Cash collateral and settlement 
balances (1) – (1) – – – – – –
Financial investments – – – 3 – 3 21 – 21
Financial instruments at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income 4 – 4 – – – – – –
Credit impairment charges and 
other provisions 1,663 (195) 1,468 2,670 (334) 2,336 2,738 (365) 2,373

Notes
a The comparatives for 2017 and 2016 are presented on an IAS 39 basis.
b Cash recoveries of previously written off amounts.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 277

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued
The movement in gross exposures and impairment allowance for loans and advances at amortised cost table under IFRS 9 is presented in the 
Credit risk section on page 153. The prior year comparative table for movement in allowance under IAS 39 is presented below.

Movements in allowance for impairment by asset class

At beginning
of year

£m

Acquisitions
and

disposals
£m

Unwind of
discount

£m

Exchange
and other

adjustments
£m

Amounts
written off

£m
Recoveries 

£m

Amounts
charged to

income
statement

£m

Balance at
31 December

£m

2017
Home loans 467 – (5) (4) (29) – 29 458
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 3,060 – (43) (223) (2,042) 252 2,051 3,055
Corporate loans 1,093 (5) – (13) (258) 82 240 1,139
Total impairment allowance 4,620 (5) (48) (240) (2,329) 334 2,320 4,652

Write-offs subject to enforcement activity
The contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off during the period ended 31 December 2018 and that are still subject 
to enforcement activity is £1,445m. This is lower than the write-offs presented in the movement in gross exposures and impairment allowance 
table due to post write-off recoveries.

Modification of financial assets
Financial assets with a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL of £851m were subject to non-substantial modification during 
the period, with a resulting loss of £26m. The gross carrying amount at 31 December 2018 of financial assets for which the loss allowance has 
changed to a 12 month ECL during the year amounts to £114m.

8 Operating expenses

Accounting for staff costs
The Barclays Group applies IAS 19 Employee benefits in its accounting for most of the components of staff costs.

Short-term employee benefits – salaries, accrued performance costs and social security are recognised over the period in which the employees 
provide the services to which the payments relate.

Performance costs – recognised to the extent that the Barclays Group has a present obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably 
and are recognised over the period of service that employees are required to work to qualify for the payments.

Deferred cash and share awards are made to employees to incentivise performance over the period employees provide services. To receive 
payment under an award, employees must provide service over the vesting period. The period over which the expense for deferred cash and 
share awards is recognised is based upon the period employees consider their services contribute to the awards. For past awards, the Barclays 
Group considers that it is appropriate to recognise the awards over the period from the date of grant to the date that the awards vest. In relation 
to awards granted from 2017, the Barclays Group, taking into account the changing employee understanding surrounding those awards, 
considered it appropriate for expense to be recognised over the vesting period including the financial year prior to the grant date.  

The accounting policies for share-based payments, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in Note 32 and Note 33 
respectively.

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Infrastructure costs
Property and equipment 1,360 1,366 1,180
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 418 446 492
Operating lease rentals 329 342 561
Amortisation of intangible assets 834 715 670
Impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 80 95
Total infrastructure costs 2,950 2,949 2,998
Administration and general costs
Consultancy, legal and professional feesa 729 1,064 782
Subscriptions, publications, stationery and communications 635 630 644
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship 495 433 435
Travel and accommodation 153 150 136
UK bank levy 269 365 410
Other administration and general expensesa 176 98 147
Total administration and general costs 2,457 2,740 2,554
Staff costs 8,629 8,560 9,423
Provisions for litigation and conducta 2,207 1,207 1,363
Operating expenses 16,243 15,456 16,338

Note
a The presentation of other costs has been amended to include litigation and conduct as a separate line item. The prior year comparatives within other cost categories have been 

adjusted accordingly. 

<Page End><Page Start>
278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

9 Tax

Accounting for income taxes
The Barclays Group applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. Income tax payable on taxable profits (current tax) is 
recognised as an expense in the periods in which the profits arise. Withholding taxes are also treated as income taxes. Income tax recoverable 
on tax allowable losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offsetting against taxable 
profits arising in the current or prior periods. Current tax is measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.  

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except in certain circumstances where the 
deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax 
is determined using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the 
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal 
right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis. 

The Barclays Group considers an uncertain tax position to exist when it considers that ultimately, in the future, the amount of profit subject to 
tax may be greater than the amount initially reflected in the Barclays Group's tax returns. The Barclays Group accounts for provisions in respect 
of uncertain tax positions in two different ways.  

A current tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position 
will alter the amount of cash tax due to, or from, a tax authority in the future. From recognition, the current tax provision is then measured at 
the amount the Barclays Group ultimately expects to pay the tax authority to resolve the position, taking into account any interest and penalties 
potentially payable to the tax authority. 

Deferred tax provisions are adjustments made to the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of uncertain tax positions. A deferred tax 
provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position will result in 
a reduction in the carrying value of the deferred tax asset. From recognition of a provision, measurement of the underlying deferred tax asset is 
adjusted to take into account the expected impact of resolving the uncertain tax position on the loss or temporary difference giving rise to the 
deferred tax asset. 

The approach taken to measurement takes account of whether the uncertain tax position is a discrete position that will be reviewed by the 
tax authority in isolation from any other position, or one of a number of issues which are expected to be reviewed together concurrently and 
resolved simultaneously with a tax authority. Barclays Group's measurement of provisions is based upon its best estimate of the additional 
profit that will become subject to tax. For a discrete position, consideration is given only to the merits of that position. Where a number of 
issues are expected to be reviewed and resolved together, Barclays Group will take into account not only the merits of its position in respect 
of each particular issue but also the overall level of provision relative to the aggregate of the uncertain tax positions across all the issues that 
are expected to be resolved at the same time. In addition, in assessing provision levels, it is assumed that tax authorities will review uncertain 
tax positions and that all facts will be fully and transparently disclosed. 

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
There are two key areas of judgement that impact the reported tax position. Firstly, the level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions; and 
secondly, the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets. 

The Barclays Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of current and deferred tax 
balances, including provisions for uncertain tax positions in the next financial year.  The provisions for uncertain tax positions cover a diverse 
range of issues and reflect advice from external counsel where relevant.  It should be noted that only a proportion of the total uncertain tax 
positions will be under audit at any point in time, and could therefore be subject to challenge by a tax authority over the next year. 

Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on business profit forecasts. Details on the recognition of deferred tax assets is provided in 
this note.

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 900 768 896 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (214) 55 (361)

686 823 535 
Deferred tax charge/(credit)
Current year 442 1,507 393 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (90) 65 

436 1,417 458 
Tax charge 1,122 2,240 993 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 279

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

9 Tax continued
The table below shows the reconciliation between the actual tax charge and the tax charge that would result from applying the standard UK 
corporation tax rate to the Barclays Group's profit before tax.

2018
£m

2018
%

2017
£m

2017
%

2016
£m

2016
%

Profit before tax 3,494 3,541 3,230
Tax charge based on the standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% 
(2017: 19.25%; 2016: 20%) 664 19.0% 682 19.3% 646 20.0% 
Impact of profits/losses earned in territories with different statutory 
rates to the UK (weighted average tax rate is 21.9% (2017: 29.4%;  
2016: 32.8%)) 100 2.9% 356 10.1% 415 12.8% 

Recurring items: 
Non-creditable taxes including withholding taxes 156 4.5% 191 5.4% 277 8.6% 
Non-deductible expenses 81 2.3% 90 2.5% 114 3.5% 
Impact of UK bank levy being non-deductible 51 1.5% 70 2.0% 82 2.5% 
Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 17 0.5% 5 0.1% 34 1.1% 
Non-taxable gains and income (245) (7.0%) (178) (5.0%) (199) (6.2%)
Changes in recognition of deferred tax and effect of unrecognised tax 
losses (104) (3.0%) (71) (2.0%) (178) (5.5%)
Impact of Barclays Bank PLC's overseas branches being taxed both 
locally and in the UK 16 0.5% (61) (1.7%) (128) (4.0%)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (220) (6.3%) (35) (1.0%) (296) (9.2%)
Banking surcharge and other items 167 4.8% 128 3.6% 88 2.7% 

Non-recurring items:
Remeasurement of US deferred tax assets due to US tax rate reduction – –  1,177 33.2% – –  
Impact of the UK branch exemption election on US branch deferred tax 
assets – –  (276) (7.8%) – –  
Non-deductible provisions for UK customer redress 93 2.7% 129 3.6% 203 6.3% 
Non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation 346 9.9% 72 2.0% 48 1.5% 
Non-taxable gains and income on divestments – –  (39) (1.1%) (180) (5.6%)
Non-deductible impairments and losses on divestments – –  – –  67 2.1% 
Total tax charge 1,122 32.1% 2,240 63.3% 993 30.7%

Factors driving the effective tax rate
The effective tax rate of 32.1% is higher than the UK corporation tax rate of 19% primarily due to profits earned outside the UK being taxed at local 
statutory tax rates that are higher than the UK tax rate, provisions for UK customer redress, investigations and litigation being non-deductible for 
tax purposes, non-creditable taxes and non-deductible expenses including UK bank levy. In addition, the UK profits of banking companies are 
subject to a surcharge. These factors, which have each increased the effective tax rate, are partially offset by the impact of non-taxable gains and 
income in the period, changes in the recognition of deferred tax, and the impact of adjustments in respect of prior years.

The Barclays Group's future tax charge will be sensitive to the geographic mix of profits earned and the tax rates in force in the jurisdictions that 
the Barclays Group operates in. In the UK, legislation to reduce the corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 has been enacted. 

Effective from 1 January 2019, a change in accounting standards requires the tax consequences of all payments on financial instruments that 
are classified as equity for accounting purposes, where those payments are considered to be a distribution of profit, to be included in the income 
statement tax charge. The Barclays Group currently includes the tax credit associated with deductions for payments made under Additional Tier 1 
instruments as a movement in reserves. This accounting change will result in that tax credit being included in the income statement tax charge, 
and this will have the effect of reducing the Barclays Group's effective tax rate from 2019. 

For illustrative purposes, if this future accounting approach had been applied in 2018, then, the tax credit on payments under Additional Tier 1 
instruments would have reduced the Barclays Group's total income statement tax charge by £203m.

Tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income can be found on page 257 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income which includes within Other a tax credit of £30m (2017: £5m charge) on other items including share based payments.

Tax in respect of discontinued operation
Tax relating to the discontinued operation can be found in the BAGL disposal group income statement (refer to Note 41). The tax charge of nil 
(2017: £154m) related entirely to the profit from the ordinary activities of the discontinued operation.

<Page End><Page Start>
280 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

9 Tax continued
Current tax assets and liabilities
Movements on current tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Assets 482 561 
Liabilities (586) (737)
As at 1 January (104) (176)
Income statement from continuing operations (686) (823)
Other comprehensive income 321 93 
Corporate income tax paid 548 708 
Other movements 91 94 

170 (104)
Assets 798 482 
Liabilities (628) (586)
As at 31 December 170 (104)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The deferred tax amounts on the balance sheet were as follows:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Intermediate Holding Company (IHC Tax Group) 1,454 1,413 
US Branch Tax Group 1,087 1,234 
UK Tax Group 861 492 
Other 426 318 
Deferred tax asset 3,828 3,457 
Deferred tax liability (51) (44)
Net deferred tax 3,777 3,413

US deferred tax assets in the IHC and US Branch Tax Groups
The deferred tax asset in the IHC Tax Group of £1,454m (2017: £1,413m) includes £220m (2017: £286m) relating to tax losses and the deferred 
tax asset in Barclays Bank PLC's US Branch Tax Group of £1,087m (2017: £1,234m) includes £167m (2017: £283m) relating to tax losses. Under 
US tax rules, losses occurring prior to 1 January 2018 can be carried forward and offset against profits for a period of 20 years. The losses first 
arose in 2011 in the IHC Tax Group and 2008 in the US Branch Tax Group and therefore, any unused amounts may begin to expire in 2031 and 
2028 respectively. The remaining US deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences for which there is no time limit on recovery. The deferred 
tax assets for the IHC and the US Branch Tax Groups' tax losses are currently projected to be fully utilised by 2020.

UK Tax Group deferred tax asset
The deferred tax asset in the UK Tax Group of £861m (2017: £492m) relates entirely to temporary differences. 

Other deferred tax assets
The deferred tax asset of £426m (2017: £318m) in other entities within the Barclays Group includes £142m (2017: £27m) relating to tax losses 
carried forward. These deferred tax assets relate to a number of different territories and their recognition is based on profit forecasts or local 
country law which indicate that it is probable that the losses and temporary differences will be utilised.

Of the deferred tax asset of £426m (2017: £318m), an amount of £247m (2017: £218m) relates to entities which have suffered a loss in either the 
current or prior year. This has been taken into account in reaching the above conclusion that these deferred tax assets will be fully recovered in 
the future.  

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 281

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

9 Tax continued
The table below shows movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. The amounts are different from those disclosed on the 
balance sheet and in the preceding table as they are presented before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off 
and an intention to settle on a net basis.

Fixed asset
timing

differences
£m

Fair value
 through 

other 
compre-
hensive 
income 

£m

Cash flow
hedges

£m

Retirement
benefit

obligations
£m

Loan
impairment

allowance
£m

Other
provisions

£m

Tax losses
carried

forward
£m

Share-
based

payments
 and

 deferred
 compensation

£m
Other 

£m
Total 

£m
Assetsa 1,266 200 1 52 735 157 596 384 1,362 4,753
Liabilities (28) (161) (76) (218) – – – – (230) (713)
At 1 January 2018a 1,238 39 (75) (166) 735 157 596 384 1,132 4,040
Income statement (14) (8) 7 (120) (84) (62) (103) (26) (26) (436)
Other comprehensive income – 108 96 (98) (48) 8 1 (13) (7) 47
Other movements 52 6 1 (5) (2) 9 35 14 16 126

1,276 145 29 (389) 601 112 529 359 1,115 3,777
Assets 1,292 180 39 46 601 112 529 359 1,377 4,535
Liabilities (16) (35) (10) (435) – – – – (262) (758)
At 31 December 2018 1,276 145 29 (389) 601 112 529 359 1,115 3,777

Assets 1,801 183 – 91 151 251 503 732 2,013 5,725
Liabilities (92) (141) (333) – – – – – (319) (885)
At 1 January 2017 1,709 42 (333) 91 151 251 503 732 1,694 4,840
Income statement (353) – – (322) (38) (69) 131 (307) (459) (1,417)
Other comprehensive income – (3) 262 49 – – – (22) 22 308
Other movements (118) – (4) 16 (5) (25) (38) (19) (125) (318)

1,238 39 (75) (166) 108 157 596 384 1,132 3,413
Assets 1,266 200 1 52 108 157 596 384 1,362 4,126
Liabilities (28) (161) (76) (218) – – – – (230) (713)
At 31 December 2017 1,238 39 (75) (166) 108 157 596 384 1,132 3,413

Note
a Following the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, additional deferred tax assets of £627m were recognised. Refer to Note 42 for further information. 

Other movements include the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates as well as deferred tax amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals. 

The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £635m (2017: £522m). The amount of deferred tax assets 
expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £3,703m (2017: £3,399m). These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances 
where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis. 

Unrecognised deferred tax
Tax losses and temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of gross deductible temporary differences of £175m (2017: £157m), unused tax credits 
of £198m (2017: £546m), and gross tax losses of £16,313m (2017: £17,919m).  The tax losses include capital losses of £3,225m (2017: £3,126m). 
Of these tax losses, £240m (2017: £409m) expire within five years, £259m (2017: £193m) expire within six to 10 years, £948m (2017: £2,016m) 
expire within 11 to 20 years and £14,866m (2017: £15,301m) can be carried forward indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised 
in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits and gains will be available against which they can be utilised. 

Group investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the value of the Barclays Group's investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates where the 
Barclays Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of these temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 
£0.6bn (2017: £0.1bn).

<Page End><Page Start>
282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Performance/return
Notes to the financial statements

10 Earnings per share
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and discontinued 
operations 1,394 (1,922) 1,623
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders 203 174 128
Total profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and 
discontinued operations 1,597 (1,748) 1,751

Continuing operations
Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing operations 1,394 413 1,434
Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity instrument holders 203 174 128
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing operations 1,597 587 1,562

Discontinued operation
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent in respect of discontinued operations – (2,335) 189
Dilutive impact of convertible options in respect of discontinued operations – – (1)
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of discontinued operations including 
dilutive impact of convertible options – (2,335) 188

Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent in respect of continuing and discontinued 
operations including dilutive impact of convertible options 1,597 (1,748) 1,750

2018
million

2017
million

2016
million

Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 17,075 16,996 16,860
Number of potential ordinary shares 308 288 184
Diluted weighted average number of shares 17,383 17,284 17,044

Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
2018

p
2017

p
2016

p
2018

p
2017

p
2016

p

Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 9.4 (10.3) 10.4 9.2 (10.1) 10.3
Earnings per ordinary share in respect of continuing operations 9.4 3.5 9.3 9.2 3.4 9.2
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share in respect of discontinued  
operation – (13.8) 1.1 – (13.5) 1.1

The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the basic weighted average 
number of shares excluding treasury shares held in employee benefit trusts or held for trading. When calculating the diluted earnings per share, 
the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, 
totalling 308m (2017: 288m) shares. The total number of share options outstanding, under schemes considered to be potentially dilutive, was 
544m (2017: 534m). These options have strike prices ranging from £1.20 to £2.27.

Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2018, 43m (2017: 10m) were anti-dilutive. 

The 79m (2017: 136m) increase in the basic weighted average number of shares since 31 December 2017 to 17,075m is primarily due to shares 
issued under employee share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Programme.

11 Dividends on ordinary shares
The Directors have approved a total dividend in respect of 2018 of 6.5p per ordinary share of 25p each. The remaining full year dividend for 
2018 of 4.0p per ordinary share will be paid on 5 April 2019 to shareholders on the Share Register on 1 March 2019 following the 2.5p half year 
dividend paid in September. On 31 December 2018, there were 17,133m ordinary shares in issue. The financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2018 does not reflect this dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the 
year ending 31 December 2019. The 2018 financial statements include the 2018 half year dividend of £427m (2017: £170m) and a final dividend 
declared in relation to 2017 of £341m (2017: £339m). Dividends are funded out of distributable reserves. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 283

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Notes to the financial statements

12 Trading portfolio

Accounting for trading portfolio assets and liabilities
In accordance with IFRS 9, all assets and liabilities held for trading purposes are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes in fair 
value taken to the income statement in net trading income (Note 5).

Trading portfolio assets Trading portfolio liabilities
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
Debt securities and other eligible bills 57,283 51,200 (25,394) (29,045)
Equity securities 39,565 59,338 (12,488) (8,306)
Traded loans 7,234 3,140 – –
Commodities 105 82 – –
Trading portfolio assets/(liabilities) 104,187 113,760 (37,882) (37,351)

13 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement

Accounting for financial assets mandatorily at fair value
Financial assets that are held for trading are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, financial assets are held at fair value 
through profit or loss if they do not contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, or if the financial 
asset is not held in a business model that is either (i) a business model to collect the contractual cash flows or (ii) a business model that is 
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling.

Accounting for financial assets designated at fair value
Financial assets, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they are so irrevocably designated at inception and the use 
of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.

Subsequent changes in fair value for these instruments are recognised in the income statement in net investment income, except if reporting 
it in trading income reduces an accounting mismatch.

The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial assets at fair value are described in Note 17.

Designated at fair value Mandatorily at fair value Total
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
Loans and advances 5,267 11,037 14,257 – 19,524 11,037
Debt securities 3,855 15 667 – 4,522 15
Equity securities – 4,670 6,019 – 6,019 4,670
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 106 100,040 118,935 – 119,041 100,040
Other financial assets – 519 542 – 542 519
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 9,228 116,281 140,420 – 149,648 116,281

Credit risk of loans and advances designated at fair value and related credit derivatives
The following table shows the maximum exposure to credit risk, the changes in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, and the cumulative 
changes in fair value since initial recognition together with the amount by which related credit derivatives mitigate this risk:

Maximum exposure as at 
31 December

Changes in fair value during 
the year ended

Cumulative changes in fair 
value from inception

2018
£m

2017
£m

2018
£m

2017
£m

2018
£m

2017
£m

Loans and advances designated at fair value, attributable to credit risk 5,267 11,037 4 10 (35) 2
Value mitigated by related credit derivatives – 256 – 1 – (12)

Assets and liabilities held at fair value

The notes included in this section focus on assets and liabilities the Barclays Group holds and recognises at fair value. Fair value refers to the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an arm's-length transaction with a willing 
counterparty, which may be an observable market price or, where there is no quoted price for the instrument, may be an estimate based on 
available market data. Detail regarding the Barclays Group's approach to managing market risk can be found on page 176.

<Page End><Page Start>
284 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

14 Derivative financial instruments

Accounting for derivatives
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the 
contract. They include swaps, forward-rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the 
Barclays Group's net interest income, net trading income and derivative assets and liabilities. Notional amounts of the contracts are not 
recorded on the balance sheet. Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and equity exposures and exposures 
to certain indices such as house price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.

All derivative instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss, except for derivatives that are in a designated cash flow or net investment 
hedge accounting relationship. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is 
negative. This includes terms included in a contract or financial liability (the host), which, had it been a standalone contract, would have met 
the definition of a derivative. If these are separated from the host, i.e. when the economic characteristics of the embedded derivative are not 
closely related with those of the host contract and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through profit or loss, then they are 
accounted for in the same way as derivatives. For financial assets, the requirements are whether the financial asset contain contractual terms 
that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, and consequently the requirements for accounting for embedded derivatives are 
not applicable to financial assets. 

Hedge accounting
The Barclays Group applies the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for hedge accounting purposes. 
The Barclays Group applies hedge accounting to represent the economic effects of its interest rate, currency and contractually linked inflation 
risk management strategies. Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when transactions meet the required criteria for 
documentation and hedge effectiveness, the Barclays Group applies fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging 
of a net investment in a foreign operation, as appropriate to the risks being hedged. 

Fair value hedge accounting 
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with 
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The fair value changes adjust the carrying value 
of the hedged asset or liability held at amortised cost.

If hedge relationships no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate 
risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated 
hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. For items classified as fair value through other comprehensive income, the hedge accounting adjustment 
is included in other comprehensive income. 

Cash flow hedge accounting
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially 
in other comprehensive income, and then recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. 
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.

When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred 
to the income statement.

Hedges of net investments 
The Barclays Group's net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items accounted for as part of the net investment, are hedged 
for foreign currency risks using both derivatives and foreign currency borrowings. Hedges of net investments are accounted for similarly to 
cash flow hedges; the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is being recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income and the ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation, or other reductions 
in the Barclays Group's investment in the operation. 

Total derivatives 2018 2017
Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 44,193,753 222,384 (219,578) 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236)
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 180,202 154 (65) 231,348 165 (1,109)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 44,373,955 222,538 (219,643) 35,918,021 237,669 (238,345)

Further information on netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments can be found within Note 18.

Trading derivatives are managed within the Barclays Group's market risk management policies, which are outlined on page 139. 

The Barclays Group's exposure to credit risk arising from derivative contracts are outlined in the Credit risk section on page 149 to 175.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 285

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

14 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for trading 2018 2017
Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Foreign exchange derivatives
Forward foreign exchange 3,460,364 32,575 (33,051) 3,131,184 26,534 (26,177)
Currency swaps 1,180,559 27,184 (26,031) 1,098,587 23,675 (22,003)
OTC options bought and sold 552,838 4,259 (4,805) 506,156 4,056 (4,665)
OTC derivatives 5,193,761 64,018 (63,887) 4,735,927 54,265 (52,845)
Foreign exchange derivatives cleared by central counterparty 72,526 163 (233) 59,618 607 (585)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 23,585 7 (7) 24,266 30 (30)
Foreign exchange derivatives 5,289,872 64,188 (64,127) 4,819,811 54,902 (53,460)
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps 7,333,917 102,613 (96,394) 5,680,977 121,560 (112,187)
Forward-rate agreements 342,883 171 (306) 268,277 87 (88)
OTC options bought and sold 2,292,525 20,922 (22,589) 2,384,453 27,235 (29,635)
OTC derivatives 9,969,325 123,706 (119,289) 8,333,707 148,882 (141,910)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 16,083,853 1,056 (1,016) 13,215,545 3,675 (3,390)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 11,087,714 356 (323) 7,644,560 362 (358)
Interest rate derivatives 37,140,892 125,118 (120,628) 29,193,812 152,919 (145,658)
Credit derivatives
OTC swaps 386,508 6,575 (5,239) 411,160 7,595 (6,233)
Credit derivatives cleared by central counterparty 372,567 4,180 (4,280) 303,841 4,954 (5,319)
Credit derivatives 759,075 10,755 (9,519) 715,001 12,549 (11,552)
Equity and stock index derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 57,840 4,542 (7,719) 58,456 5,262 (9,591)
Equity swaps and forwards 132,656 5,169 (4,111) 103,283 2,235 (5,478)
OTC derivatives 190,496 9,711 (11,830) 161,739 7,497 (15,069)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 692,435 11,171 (12,066) 632,662 7,201 (9,050)
Equity and stock index derivatives 882,931 20,882 (23,896) 794,401 14,698 (24,119)
Commodity derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 1,648 26 (34) 4,465 32 (103)
Commodity swaps and forwards 8,108 495 (374) 12,755 662 (753)
OTC derivatives 9,756 521 (408) 17,220 694 (856)
Exchange traded futures and options – bought and sold 111,227 920 (1,000) 146,428 1,742 (1,591)
Commodity derivatives 120,983 1,441 (1,408) 163,648 2,436 (2,447)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 44,193,753 222,384 (219,578) 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236)

Total OTC derivatives held for trading 15,749,846 204,531 (200,653) 13,659,753 218,933 (216,913)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held 
for trading 16,528,946 5,399 (5,529) 13,579,004 9,236 (9,294)
Total exchange traded derivatives held for trading 11,914,961 12,454 (13,396) 8,447,916 9,335 (11,029)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 44,193,753 222,384 (219,578) 35,686,673 237,504 (237,236)

<Page End><Page Start>
286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

14 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table:

Derivatives held for risk management 2018 2017
Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Notional
contract
amount

£m

 
Fair value

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps 2,075 11 (6) 1,482 7 (3)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 73,314 –   –   122,103 –   –   
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 75,389 11 (6) 123,585 7 (3)
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 2,065 143 (49) 7,345 117 (1,096)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 99,780 –   –   97,436 –   –   
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 101,845 143 (49) 104,781 117 (1,096)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments
Forward foreign exchange 2,968 –   (10) 2,982 41 (10)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments 2,968 –   (10) 2,982 41 (10)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 180,202 154 (65) 231,348 165 (1,109)

Total OTC derivatives held for risk management 7,108 154 (65) 11,809 165 (1,109)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held for risk 
management 173,094 –   –   219,539 –   –   
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 180,202 154 (65) 231,348 165 (1,109)

The Barclays Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates. These cash flows are expected to 
impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied:

Total
£m

Up to
one year

£m

One to
two years

£m

Two to 
three years

£m

Three to
four years

£m

Four to
five years

£m

More than
five years

£m
2018
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,599 685 717 536 346 200 115

2017
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,671 484 584 561 416 305 321

The maximum length of time over which the Barclays Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, 
excluding those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments is 10 years (2017: 10 years).

Amounts recognised in net interest income
2018

£m
2017

£m
(Losses)/gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (163) 550
Gains/(losses) on the hedging instruments 164 (460)
Fair value ineffectiveness 1 90
Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness (5) (135)
Net investment hedging ineffectiveness (1) 2

Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement included a £332m gain (2017: £632m gain) to 
interest expense. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 287

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

14 Derivative financial instruments continued
Hedge accounting
Hedge accounting is applied predominantly for the following risks:
(i) Interest rate risk – predominantly arises due to a mismatch between fixed interest rates and floating interest rates. Interest rate risk also 

includes exposure to inflation risk for certain types of investments.

(ii) Currency risk – arises due to assets or liabilities being denominated in different currencies than the functional currency of the relevant entity. 
At a consolidated level, currency risk also arises when the functional currency of subsidiaries are different from the parent.

(iii) Contractually linked Inflation risk – arises from financial instruments within contractually specified inflation risk. The Barclays Group does not 
hedge inflation risk that arises from other activities.

In order to hedge the risks to which the Barclays Group is exposed, the hedging instruments employed are interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, 
currency swaps and foreign currency debt to:
(i) Swap fixed interest rate exposures into variable rates.

(ii) Swap variable interest rate exposures into fixed rates.

(iii) Swap inflation exposure into either fixed or variable interest rates.

(iv) Swap foreign currency net investment exposure to local currency.

The hedging instruments share the same risk exposures as the hedged items, being interest rate risk, inflation risk and foreign currency risk. 
Hedge effectiveness is assessed with reference to the shared risks, but to the extent hedging instruments are exposed to different risks than the 
hedged items, this could result in hedge ineffectiveness or hedge accounting failures.

In some cases, certain items which are economically hedged may be ineligible hedged items for the purposes of IAS 39, such as core deposits and 
equity.  In these instances, a proxy hedging solution can be utilised whereby portfolios of floating rate assets are designated as eligible hedged 
items in cash flow hedges.

The ratio between the hedged item and the hedging instruments is typically determined with reference to the sensitivity of the hedged item, 
on designation to the risk factor, compared to that of the hedging instrument. In many cases the ratio is 100%.

In some hedging relationships, the Barclays Group would designate risk components of hedged items as follows:
(i) Benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the LIBOR component.

(ii) Inflation risk as a contractually specified component of a debt instrument.

(iii) Spot exchange rate risk for foreign currency financial assets or financial liabilities.

(iv) Components of cash flows of hedged items, for example certain interest payments for part of the life of an instrument.

Using the benchmark interest rate risk results in other risks such as credit risk and liquidity risk being excluded from the hedge accounting 
relationship. LIBOR is considered the predominant interest rate risk and therefore the hedged items change in fair value on a fully proportionate 
basis with reference to this risk.

For disclosures of the extent of risk exposures that the Barclays Group manages, refer to the Risk review section.

In respect of many of the Barclays Group's hedge accounting relationships, the hedged item and hedging instrument change frequently due to 
the dynamic nature of the risk management and hedge accounting strategy.

The Barclays risk management strategy is to hedge interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives (predominantly interest rate swaps), currency 
risk with currency derivatives and inflation risk with inflation derivatives. The interest rate risk management strategy is to reduce Barclays' 
exposure to interest rate risk to within approved risk limits.

The Barclays Group applies hedge accounting to dynamic scenarios, predominantly in relation to interest rate risk, with a combination of hedged 
items (some hedged items are designated by proxy) in order for its financial statements to reflect as closely as possible the economic risk 
management undertaken. Hedge relationships are analysed and rebalanced on a daily basis. In some cases, if the hedge accounting objective 
changes, the relevant hedge accounting relationship is de-designated; in some cases, a de-designated relationship is replaced with a different 
hedge accounting relationship.

Changes in the GBP value of net investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting 
in a movement in CET1 capital. The Barclays Group's strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange 
movements, by matching the CET1 capital movements to the revaluation of the Barclays Group's foreign currency RWA exposures. Net investment 
hedges are designated where necessary to reduce the exposure to movement in a particular exchange rate to within mandated limits. As far as 
possible, existing external currency liabilities are designated as the hedging instruments. Hedging relationships are reviewed, and adjusted if 
necessary, at least once a month.

Sources of ineffectiveness affecting hedge accounting are as follows:
(i) Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument, including basis differences between the hedged 

risk and the risk exposure of the hedging instrument.

(ii) Changes in credit risk of the hedging instruments.

(iii) If a hedge accounting relationship becomes overhedged. This might occur in hedges of net investments if the net asset value designated 
at the start of the period falls below the amount of the hedging instrument.

(iv) In the cash flow hedging solution, when a hedge is built using external swaps having non-zero present values, it creates ineffectiveness.

No other source of ineffectiveness has arisen during the period. Hedge effectiveness is determined with reference to quantitative tests, 
predominantly regression testing, which takes into account the regression co-efficient, the slope of the regression line, and ensuring that the 
relevant confidence intervals are complied with. There were no instances of forecast transactions for which hedge accounting had been used 
in the previous period, but which are no longer expected to occur.

<Page End><Page Start>
288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

14 Derivative financial instruments continued
Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
The following table shows the hedging instruments which are carried on the Barclays Group's balance sheet:

Hedge type Risk category

Nominal 
amount

£m

Change in fair
value used as

 a basis to
determine

ineffectiveness
£m

Carrying value

Derivative
assets 

£m

Derivative
liabilities

£m

Loan
liabilities

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Fair value Interest rate risk 106 (41)  –   98,320 135

Inflation risk 37 (8)  –   3,525 29
Cash flow Interest rate risk 11 (6)  –   75,389 (380)
Net investment Foreign exchange risk – (10) (12,325) 15,300 (745)

The following table profiles the expected notional values of current hedging instruments in future years:

2019
£m

2020
£m

2021
£m

2022
£m

2023
£m

2024 and later
£m

As at 31 December
Fair value hedges of interest rate risk
Notional amount 95,411 86,939 70,335 56,938 51,114 41,510
Fair value hedges of inflation risk
Notional amount 3,107 1,998 1,754 1,331 1,159 986

There are 1,805 interest rate risk fair value hedges with an average fixed rate of 2.79% across the relationships and 44 inflation risk fair value 
hedges with an average rate of 1% across the relationships.

Hedged items in fair value hedge accounting relationships
Accumulated fair value adjustment 

included in carrying amount

Hedged item statement of financial position 
classification and risk category

Carrying amount
£m

Total
£m

Of which:
Accumulated

fair value
adjustment on

items no longer
in a hedge

relationship
£m

Change in
fair value

used as a basis
 to determine

ineffectiveness
£m

Hedge
ineffectiveness

recognised in the
income statement

£m

Line item in the
income statement
used to recognise

ineffectiveness
2018
Assets
Loans and advances classified as 
amortised cost
– Interest rate risk 7,106 (363) (626) (568) 37 Net interest income
– Inflation risk 512 312  –   2 (1) Net interest income
Debt securities classified as fair value 
through other comprehensive income
– Interest rate risk 30,108 416 (21) (96) 17 Net interest income
– Inflation risk 2,907 (20) – (50) (18) Net interest income
Liabilities
Debt securities in issue classified as
amortised cost
– Interest rate risk 53,935 (289) (256) 549 (34) Net interest income

For items classified as fair value through other comprehensive income, the hedge accounting adjustment is not included in the carrying amount, 
but rather recognised as other comprehensive income.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 289

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

14 Derivative financial instruments continued
Hedged items in cash flow hedge accounting and hedges of net investments in foreign operations

Description of hedge  
relationship and hedged risk

Change in
 value of

hedged item
 used as 

the basis for
 recognising

  ineffectiveness
£m

Balance in
 cash flow 

hedge reserve
 for continuing

 hedges
£m

Balance in 
foreign

 currency
reserve

for continuing
 hedges

£m

Balances 
remaining in 

cash flow 
hedge reserve

 for which 
hedge 

accounting 
is no longer 

applied
£m

Balances
 remaining 
in foreign
 currency

 translation
 reserve for

 which hedge
 accounting
 is no longer

 applied
£m

Hedging gains
 or losses

 recognised 
in other 

comprehensive
income

£m

Hedge
 ineffectiveness

 recognised in
 the income

 statement
£m

Line item in the
 statement of

 comprehensive
 income used 
to recognise 

ineffectiveness

2018
Cash flow hedge of interest 
rate risk
Loans and  
advances classified  
as amortised cost 375 (44) – (827) – 334 (5)

Net interest
income

Hedge of net investment  
in foreign operation
USD foreign operations 719 – 1,648 – – 719 –
EUR foreign operations – – 1 – 86 – –
ZAR foreign operations – – – – (1) – –
CAD foreign operations – – – – 1 – –
CHF foreign operations 4 – – – 53 4 –
HKD foreign operations 2 – – – 23 2 –
JPY foreign operations 14 – – – 77 14 –
MXN foreign operations 21 – – – (14) 21 –
SEK foreign operations (13) – – – 13 (13) –

SGD foreign operations 1 – – – 78 1 (1)
Net interest

income
TWD foreign operations – – – – 2 – –
BRL foreign operations (4) – (3) – – (4) –
CNY foreign operations – – – – 2 – –
INR foreign operations – – – – 7 – –

744 – 1,646 – 327 744 (1)

The effect on the income statement and other comprehensive income of recycling amounts in respect of cash flow hedges and net investment 
hedges of foreign operations is set out in the following table:

Description of hedge relationship and hedged risk

2018
Amount recycled

 from other
 comprehensive
 income due to

 hedged item
 affecting income

 statement
£m

Amount recycled
 from other

 comprehensive
 income during the
 period due to sale

 or disposal of
 investment

£m
Cash flow hedge of interest rate risk
Recycled to interest income 332 –
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Recycled to other income – (41)

A detailed reconciliation of the movements of the cash flow hedge reserve and the currency translation reserve is as follows:

Cash flow 
hedge reserve

£m

Currency
 translation reserve

£m
Balance on 1 January 2018 1,161 3,054
Currency translation movementsa (10) 793
Hedging gains/(losses) for the year (334) –
Amounts reclassified in relation to cash flows affecting profit or loss (332) 41
Tax 175 –
Balance on 31 December 2018 660 3,888

Note
a Currency translation movements include amounts attributable to items which are not in net investment hedges (£49m gain).

<Page End><Page Start>
290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

15 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and financial investments

Accounting for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI') under IFRS 9 effective from 1 January 2018
Financial assets that are debt instruments held in a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
and that contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI are measured at FVOCI. They are subsequently 
re-measured at fair value and changes therein (except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency exchange gains 
and losses) are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold. Interest (calculated using the effective interest method) 
is recognised in the income statement in net interest income (Note 3). Upon disposal, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income is included in net investment income.

In determining whether the business model is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, it is determined 
that both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to achieving the objective of the business model. The 
Barclays Group will consider past sales and expectations about future sales to establish if the business model is achieved.

For equity securities that are not held for trading, the Barclays Group may make an irrevocable election on initial recognition to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of the instrument in other comprehensive income (except for dividend income which is recognised in 
profit or loss). Gains or losses on the de-recognition of these equity securities are not transferred to profit or loss. These assets are also not 
subject to the impairment requirements and therefore no amounts are recycled to the income statement. Where the Barclays Group has not 
made the irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of the instrument in other comprehensive income, equity 
securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss.

Accounting for financial investments under IAS 39 for 2017 and 2016 
Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value with gains and losses being included in other comprehensive income. The Barclays Group 
uses this classification for assets that are not derivatives and are not held for trading purposes or otherwise designated at fair value through 
profit or loss, or at amortised cost. Dividends and interest (calculated using the effective interest method) are recognised in the income 
statement in net interest income or, net investment income. On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive 
income is also included in net investment income.

Held to maturity assets are held at amortised cost. The Barclays Group uses this classification when there is an intent and ability to hold the 
asset to maturity. Interest on the investments are recognised in the income statement within net interest income.

2018
£m

2017
£m

Debt securities and other eligible bills at fair value through other comprehensive income 51,026 –
Equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,122 –
Loans and advances at fair value through other comprehensive income 668 –
Available for sale debt securities and other eligible bills – 52,020
Available for sale equity securities – 1,786
Held to maturity debt securities – 5,109
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income/Financial investments 52,816 58,915

16 Financial liabilities designated at fair value

Accounting for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss
In accordance with IFRS 9, financial liabilities may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net 
trading income (Note 5) and net investment income (Note 6). Movements in own credit are reported through other comprehensive income. 
On derecognition of the financial liability no amount relating to own credit risk are recycled to the income statement. The Barclays Group has 
the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an 
offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed by the Barclays Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that 
have substantive derivative characteristics (Note 14).

The details on how the fair value amounts are arrived for financial liabilities designated at fair value are described in Note 17.

2018 2017

Fair value
£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m
Fair value

£m

Contractual
amount due
on maturity

£m
Debt securities 46,649 54,159 42,563 46,920
Deposits 31,682 32,029 4,448 4,414
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 138,484 138,724 126,691 126,822
Other financial liabilities 19 19 16 16
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 216,834 224,931 173,718 178,172

The cumulative own credit net loss recognised is £121m (2017: £179m loss).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 291

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments

Accounting for financial assets and liabilities – fair values
Financial instruments that are held for trading are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, financial assets are held at fair 
value through profit or loss if they do not contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, or if the 
financial asset is not held in a business model that is either (i) a business model to collect the contractual cash flows or (ii) a business model 
that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling. Subsequent changes in fair value for these instruments are recognised 
in the income statement in net investment income, except if reporting it in trading income reduces an accounting mismatch.  

All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date of initial recognition (including transaction costs, other than financial 
instruments held at fair value through profit or loss) and, depending on the classification of the asset or liability, may continue to be held at fair 
value either through profit or loss or other comprehensive income. The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.

Wherever possible, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument. For many of the Barclays Group's financial 
assets and liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not available and valuation models are used to estimate fair value. The models 
calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value. These 
models use as their basis independently sourced market inputs including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities 
prices, option volatilities and currency rates.

For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads derived 
from observable market data such as in primary issuance and redemption activity for structured notes. 

On initial recognition, it is presumed that the transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active 
market to the contrary. The best evidence of an instrument's fair value on initial recognition is typically the transaction price. However, if fair 
value can be evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, or is based on a valuation 
technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets, then the instrument should be recognised at the fair value derived from 
such observable market data.

For valuations that have made use of unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction price 
(Day One profit) is recognised in profit or loss either: on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction; or over the period until all model 
inputs will become observable where appropriate; or released in full when previously unobservable inputs become observable.

Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may vary from product to product and change over time. Factors 
include the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, 
the maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction (bespoke or generic). To the extent that valuation is based on models or 
inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more subjective, dependent on the significance of the 
unobservable input to the overall valuation. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by 
reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical techniques.

The sensitivity of valuations used in the financial statements to possible changes in significant unobservable inputs is shown on page 300.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The valuation of financial instruments often involves a significant degree of judgement and complexity, in particular where valuation models 
make use of unobservable inputs (‘Level 3' assets and liabilities). This note provides information on these instruments, including the related 
unrealised gains and losses recognised in the period, a description of significant valuation techniques and unobservable inputs, and 
a sensitivity analysis.

Valuation
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires an entity to classify its assets and liabilities according to a hierarchy that reflects the observability 
of significant market inputs. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.

Quoted market prices – Level 1 
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. Such instruments are valued by reference to 
unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents 
actual and regularly occurring market transactions. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency 
to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 

Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2 
Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable either directly or indirectly. Valuations 
based on observable inputs include assets and liabilities such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing techniques, 
and options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable. 

Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs). A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if there 
is compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price. Unobservable input levels are generally determined via reference to 
observable inputs, historical observations or using other analytical techniques.

<Page End><Page Start>
292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Barclays Group's assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value 
hierarchy) and balance sheet classification:

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
2018 2017

Valuation technique using Valuation technique using
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
Total

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December
Trading portfolio assets 51,029 49,545 3,613 104,187 63,925 47,858 1,977 113,760
Financial assets at fair value through the 
income statement 8,918 131,348 9,382 149,648 4,347 104,187 7,747 116,281
Derivative financial assets 6,813 210,510 5,215 222,538 3,786 228,549 5,334 237,669
Available for sale investments – – – – 22,841 30,571 395 53,807
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 19,764 32,697 355 52,816 – – – –
Investment property – – 9 9 – – 116 116
Assets included in disposal groups classified 
as held for salea – – – – – – 29 29
Total assets 86,524 424,100 18,574 529,198 94,899 411,165 15,598 521,662

Trading portfolio liabilities (20,654) (17,225) (3) (37,882) (20,905) (16,442) (4) (37,351)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value (76) (216,478) (280) (216,834) – (173,238) (480) (173,718)
Derivative financial liabilities (6,152) (208,748) (4,743) (219,643) (3,631) (229,517) (5,197) (238,345)
Total liabilities (26,882) (442,451) (5,026) (474,359) (24,536) (419,197) (5,681) (449,414)

Note 
a Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 293

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Barclays Group's assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique (fair value 
hierarchy) and product type:

Assets and liabilities held at fair value by product type
Assets

Valuation technique using
Liabilities

Valuation technique using
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Interest rate derivatives – 122,794 2,478 – (118,227) (2,456)
Foreign exchange derivatives – 63,996 192 – (63,952) (185)
Credit derivatives – 9,373 1,381 – (9,188) (331)
Equity derivatives 6,813 12,934 1,136 (6,152) (16,001) (1,743)
Commodity derivatives – 1,413 28 – (1,380) (28)
Government and government sponsored debt 41,812 51,644 14 (9,396) (11,171) –
Corporate debt – 14,664 456 – (5,061) –
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments – 1,135 – – (8,556) (10)
Margin lending – 10,388 – – (26,875) –
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements – 118,273 768 – (138,460) –
Non-asset backed loans – 7,406 8,304 – – –
Asset backed securities – 2,314 688 – (245) –
Issued debt – – – – (42,101) (251)
Equity cash products 37,816 7,195 698 (11,258) (1,181) (3)
Private equity investments 7 – 1,071 – – (19)
Assets and liabilities held for sale – – – – – –
Othera 76 571 1,360 (76) (53) –
Total 86,524 424,100 18,574 (26,882) (442,451) (5,026)

As at 31 December 2017
Interest rate derivatives – 150,325 2,718 – (143,890) (2,867)
Foreign exchange derivatives – 54,783 160 – (53,346) (124)
Credit derivatives – 11,163 1,386 – (11,312) (240)
Equity derivatives 3,786 9,848 1,064 (3,631) (18,527) (1,961)
Commodity derivatives – 2,430 6 – (2,442) (5)
Government and government sponsored debt 34,783 49,853 49 (13,079) (13,116) –
Corporate debt – 15,098 871 – (3,580) (4)
Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market 
instruments – 1,491 – – (7,377) (250)
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements – 100,038 – – (126,691) –
Non-asset backed loans – 5,710 6,657 – – –
Asset backed securities – 1,837 626 – (221) –
Issued debt – – – – (38,176) (214)
Equity cash productsb 56,322 7,690 502 (7,826) (388) –
Private equity investments 8 1 817 – – (16)
Assets and liabilities held for sale – – 29 – – –
Othera,b – 898 713 – (131) –
Total 94,899 411,165 15,598 (24,536) (419,197) (5,681)

Notes
a Level 3 preference shares of £390m were reclassified from other to equity cash products.
b Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

Valuation techniques and sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative 
valuations. The sensitivity methodologies applied take account of the nature of the valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and 
reliability of observable proxy and historical data and the impact of using alternative models. 

Sensitivities are dynamically calculated on a monthly basis. The calculation is based on range or spread data of a reliable reference source or 
a scenario based on relevant market analysis alongside the impact of using alternative models. Sensitivities are calculated without reflecting the 
impact of any diversification in the portfolio. 

The valuation techniques used for the material products within Levels 2 and 3, and observability and sensitivity analysis for products within Level 
3, are described below.

<Page End><Page Start>
294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Interest rate derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to interest rates or inflation indices. The category includes futures, interest rate and inflation swaps, swaptions, 
caps, floors, inflation options, balance guaranteed swaps and other exotic interest rate derivatives.

Valuation: Interest rate and inflation derivatives are generally valued using curves of forward rates constructed from market data to project and 
discount the expected future cash flows of trades. Instruments with optionality are valued using volatilities implied from market inputs, and use 
industry standard or bespoke models depending on the product type. 

Observability: In general, inputs are considered observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each input and underlying. 
Unobservable inputs are generally set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to unobservable valuation inputs is based on the dispersion of consensus data services where available, or 
alternatively it is based on stress scenarios or historic data.

Foreign exchange derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to the foreign exchange (FX) market. The category includes FX forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options. 
The majority are traded as over the counter (OTC) derivatives.

Valuation: FX derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models depending on the product type. Valuation inputs include 
FX rates, interest rates, FX volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and others as appropriate. 

Observability: FX correlations, forwards and volatilities are generally observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each 
input and underlying.  Unobservable inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred 
via another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is primarily based on the dispersion of consensus data services. 

Credit derivatives
Description: Derivatives linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity, index or basket of referenced entities or a pool of referenced assets 
(e.g. a securitised product). The category includes single name and index credit default swaps (CDS) and asset backed CDS.

Valuation: CDS are valued on industry standard models using curves of credit spreads as the principal input. Credit spreads are observed directly 
from broker data, third party vendors or priced to proxies.

Observability: CDS contracts referencing entities that are actively traded are generally considered observable. Other valuation inputs are 
considered observable if products with significant sensitivity to the inputs are actively traded in a liquid market. Unobservable valuation inputs 
are generally determined with reference to recent transactions or inferred from observable trades of the same issuer or similar entities.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to unobservable CDS contracts is determined by applying a shift to credit spread curves based on the average range 
of pricing observed in the market for similar CDS.

Equity derivatives
Description: Exchange traded or OTC derivatives linked to equity indices and single names. The category includes vanilla and exotic equity 
products.

Valuation: Equity derivatives are valued using industry standard models. Valuation inputs include stock prices, dividends, volatilities, interest rates, 
equity repurchase curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations.

Observability: In general, valuation inputs are observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each input and underlying. 
Unobservable inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via another reasonable 
method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally estimated using the dispersion of consensus data services.

Commodity derivatives
Description: Exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on underlying commodities such as metals, crude oil and refined products, agricultural, 
power and natural gas.

Valuation: Commodity swaps and options are valued using models incorporating discounting of cash flows and other industry standard modelling 
techniques. Valuation inputs include forward curves, volatilities implied from market observable inputs and correlations. 

Observability: Commodity correlations, forwards and volatilities are generally observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately 
for each input and underlying. Unobservable inputs are set with reference to similar observable products, or by applying extrapolation techniques 
to observable inputs.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is determined primarily by measuring historical variability over a period of years. Where historical data is unavailable 
or uncertainty is due to volumetric risk, sensitivity is measured by applying appropriate stress scenarios or using proxy bid-offer spread levels.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 295

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Complex derivative instruments
Valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to complex derivative instruments, for the purpose of determining the amount 
of collateral to be posted, often differ, sometimes significantly, from Barclays' own estimates. In almost all cases, Barclays has been able to 
successfully resolve such differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases 
by entering into compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of collateral calls, Barclays will often be engaged in discussion 
with one or more counterparties in respect of such differences at any given time. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral 
purposes are considered, like any other third party valuation, when determining Barclays' fair value estimates.

Government and government sponsored debt
Description: Government bonds, supra sovereign bonds and agency bonds. 

Valuation: Liquid bonds that are actively traded through an exchange or clearing house are marked to the levels observed in these markets. Other 
actively traded bonds are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing sources.

Observability: Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Unobservable bonds prices are generally determined by reference to 
bond yields for actively traded bonds from the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally determined by using a range of observable alternative prices.

Corporate debt
Description: Primarily corporate bonds. 

Valuation: Corporate bonds are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing 
sources. 

Observability: Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Unobservable bonds prices are generally determined by reference to 
bond yields or CDS spreads for actively traded instruments issued by or referencing the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally determined by applying a shift to bond yields using the average ranges of external levels observed in 
the market for similar bonds.

Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments
Description: Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments.

Valuation: Instruments are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services.

Observability: Prices for actively traded instruments are considered observable. Unobservable instrument prices are generally determined by 
reference to bond yields or CDS spreads for actively traded instruments issued by or referencing the same (or a similar) issuer.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally calculated by using a range of observable alternative prices. 

Margin Lending
Description: Includes Prime Brokerage Margin Lending, and other similar secured lending agreements. The agreements are primarily short-term 
in nature.

Valuation: Prime Brokerage Margin Lending transactions are generally valued by discounting the expected future cash flows using industry 
standard models that incorporate market interest rates and repurchase rates, based on the specific details of the transaction.

Observability: Inputs are deemed observable up to liquid maturities, and are determined based on the specific features of the transaction. 
Unobservable inputs are generally set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally estimated using the dispersion of consensus data services, or historic trade data. In general, the 
sensitivity of unobservable inputs is not significant to the overall valuation given the predominantly short-term nature of the agreements.

Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements
Description: Includes securities purchased under resale agreements, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and other similar secured 
lending agreements. The agreements are primarily short-term in nature.

Valuation: Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are generally valued by discounting the expected future cash flows using industry 
standard models that incorporate market interest rates and repurchase rates, based on the specific details of the transaction.

Observability: Inputs are deemed observable up to liquid maturities, and are determined based on the specific features of the transaction. 
Unobservable inputs are generally set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques, or inferred via another 
reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally estimated using the dispersion of consensus data services, stress scenarios or historic data. In general, 
the sensitivity of unobservable inputs is not significant to the overall valuation given the predominantly short-term nature of the agreements.

Non-asset backed loans
Description: Largely made up of fixed rate loans.

Valuation: Fixed rate loans are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows based on interest rates and loan spreads. 

Observability: Within this loan population, the loan spread is generally unobservable. Unobservable loan spreads are determined by incorporating 
funding costs, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, issuer credit quality and other factors.

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of fixed rate loans is calculated by applying a shift to loan spreads.

<Page End><Page Start>
296 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Asset backed securities
Description: Securities that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets via securitisation. The category includes residential mortgage 
backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, CDOs, collateralised loan obligations (CLOs) and other asset backed securities.

Valuation: Where available, valuations are based on observable market prices sourced from broker quotes and inter-dealer prices. Otherwise, 
valuations are determined using industry standard discounted cash flow analysis that calculates the fair value based on valuation inputs such as 
constant default rate, conditional prepayment rate, loss given default and yield. These inputs are determined by reference to a number of sources 
including proxying to observed transactions, market indices or market research, and by assessing underlying collateral performance. 

Proxying to observed transactions, indices or research requires an assessment and comparison of the relevant securities' underlying attributes 
including collateral, tranche, vintage, underlying asset composition (historical losses, borrower characteristics and loan attributes such as loan 
to value ratio and geographic concentration) and credit ratings (original and current).

Observability: Where an asset backed product does not have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a discounted cash 
flow analysis, the instrument is considered unobservable. 

Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity analysis for asset backed products is based on externally sourced pricing dispersion or by stressing the inputs 
of discount cash flow analysis.

Issued debt
Description: Debt notes issued by Barclays.

Valuation: Issued debt is valued using discounted cash flow techniques and industry standard models incorporating various inputs observed 
for each instrument.

Observability: Barclays issued notes are generally observable. Structured notes are debt instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where 
either an input to the embedded derivative or the debt instrument is deemed unobservable and significant to the overall valuation of the note, 
the structured note is classified as Level 3.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to the unobservable input in the embedded derivative is calculated in line with the method used for the derivative 
instrument concerned.

Equity cash products
Description: Includes listed equities, Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) and preference shares.

Valuation: Valuation of equity cash products is primarily determined through market observable prices.

Observability: Prices for actively traded equity cash products are considered observable. Unobservable equity prices are generally determined 
by reference to actively traded instruments that are similar in nature, or inferred via another reasonable method.

Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is generally calculated based on applying a shift to the valuation of the underlying asset.

Private equity investments
Description: Includes private equity holdings and principal investments. 

Valuation: Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the ‘International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines' 
which require the use of a number of individual pricing benchmarks such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar entities, 
discounted cash flow analysis and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed companies. While the valuation of unquoted equity 
instruments is subjective by nature, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market participants and have been consistently 
applied over time.

Observability: Inputs are considered observable if there is active trading in a liquid market of products with significant sensitivity to the inputs. 
Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative companies, marketability discounts and discount rates.

Level 3 sensitivity: Private equity valuation models are each sensitive to a number of key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, 
comparator multiples, marketability discounts and discount rates. Valuation sensitivity is generally estimated by shifting assumptions to 
reasonable alternative levels.

Assets and liabilities held for sale
Description: Assets and liabilities held for sale consist of disposal groups Barclays intend to sell.

Valuation: Assets and liabilities held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.

Level 3 sensitivity: The disposal groups that are measured at fair value less cost to sell are valued at the agreed price less costs to sell and are not 
expected to display significant sensitivity. The sensitivity of the assets and liabilities measured at carrying value is explained within the relevant 
product descriptions.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 297

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Other
Description: Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and 
investment property.

Assets and liabilities reclassified between Level 1 and Level 2
During the period, there were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 (period ended December 2017: £3,807m government bonds 
assets and £1,023m/£(950)m of commodity derivative assets and liabilities transferred from Level 1 to Level 2).

Level 3 movement analysis
The following table summarises the movements in the Level 3 balances during the period. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken 
place at the beginning of the year.

Assets and liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are not included as these 
are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.

Asset and liability transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 are primarily due to 1) an increase or decrease in observable market activity related to 
an input or 2) a change in the significance of the unobservable input, with assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 if an unobservable input is 
deemed significant.

<Page End><Page Start>
298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2018a
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settle-
ments

£m

Total gains and losses 
in the period 

recognised in the
 income statement

Total 
gains

 or losses
 recog-

nised
 in OCI

£m

Transfers As at 31 
December

 2018
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other
 income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 49 14 (49)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 14 
Corporate debt 871 108 (88)  – (23) 9  –  – 39 (528) 388 
Non-asset backed loans 166 5,514 (3,480)  –  –  –  –  – 71 (8) 2,263 
Asset backed securities 627 205 (168)  – (2) (21)  –  – 58 (35) 664 
Equity cash products 68 18 (9)  –  – (16)  –  – 107 (32) 136 
Other 196 4 (6)  – (20) (32)  –  – 145 (139) 148 
Trading portfolio assets 1,977 5,863 (3,800)  – (45) (60)  –  – 420 (742) 3,613 

Non-asset backed loans 6,073 74  –  – (508) 49  –  –  –  – 5,688 
Private equity investments 688 279 (114)  –  – 2 117  – 125 (26) 1,071 
Equity cash products 398 87 (1)  –  – 1 74  –  –  – 559 
Other 360 6,624 (4,920)  – (47) 29 18  –  –  – 2,064 
Financial assets at fair value 
through the income statement 7,519 7,064 (5,035)  – (555) 81 209  – 125 (26) 9,382 

Equity cash products 36  – (16)  –  –  –  –  –  – (18) 2 
Private equity investments 129  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (129)  – 
Other 40  –  –  –  –  –  – (1) 314  – 353 
Fair value through other 
comprehensive income 205  – (16)  –  –  –  – (1) 314 (147) 355 

Investment property 116 9 (115)  –  –  – (1)  –  –  – 9 

Trading portfolio liabilities (4)  –  –  –  – (3)  –  –  – 4 (3)

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (250)  –  –  – 5  – (3)  –  – 238 (10)
Issued debt (214)  –  – (4) 9 33  –  – (225) 150 (251)
Other (16)  –  –  – 4  – (7)  –  –  – (19)
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value (480)  –  – (4) 18 33 (10)  – (225) 388 (280)

Interest rate derivatives (150) 1 (1)  – 196 (25)  –  – (71) 72 22 
Foreign exchange derivatives 37  –  –  – (9) 5  –  – (13) (13) 7 
Credit derivatives 1,146 (6) 3  – (12) (85)  –  – 7 (3) 1,050 
Equity derivatives (896) 72 (570)  – 125 73 1  – 128 460 (607)
Commodity derivatives  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Net derivative financial 
instrumentsb 137 67 (568)  – 300 (32) 1  – 51 516 472 

Total 9,470 13,003 (9,534) (4) (282) 19 199 (1) 685 (7) 13,548 

Notes
a Balances as at 1 January 2018 include the IFRS 9 transition impact. Balances as at 31 December 2017 have been presented on an IAS 39 basis.
b The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis. On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are £5,215m (2017: £5,334m) and derivative financial liabilities are 

£4,743m (2017: £5,197m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 299

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities

As at
 1 January

 2017
£m

Purchases
£m

Sales
£m

Issues
£m

Settle-
ments

£m

Total gains and losses 
in the period 

recognised in the
 income statement

Total 
gains

 or losses
 recog-

nised
 in OCI

£m

Transfers As at 31 
December

 2017
£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other
 income

£m
In

£m
Out
£m

Government and government 
sponsored debt 3 46  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 49 
Corporate debt 969 73 (47)  – (98) 21  –  – 6 (53) 871 
Non-asset backed loans 151 435 (187)  – (221) (8)  –  – 1 (5) 166 
Asset backed securities 515 195 (78)  – (9) 9  –  –  – (5) 627 
Equity cash products 77 24 (11)  –  – (19)  –  –  – (3) 68 
Other 350 2 (77)  – (97) 25 (1)  – 3 (9) 196 
Trading portfolio assets 2,065 775 (400)  – (425) 28 (1)  – 10 (75) 1,977 

Non-asset backed loans 8,616  –  –  – (2,284) 159  –  –  –  – 6,491 
Asset backed loans 201 27 (25)  – (3) (17) (3)  – 6 (31) 155 
Private equity investments 562 26 (127)  – (1) (1) 29  – 21 (11) 498 
Equity cash productsa 185  –  –  – (1) (7) 205  – 16  – 398 
Othera 383 4,675 (4,646)  – (247) 41 (8)  – 16 (9) 205 
Financial assets at fair value 
through the income statement 9,947 4,728 (4,798)  – (2,536) 175 223  – 59 (51) 7,747 

Equity cash products 73  –  –  –  –  – 1 2 5 (45) 36 
Private equity investments 294 15 (78)  –  –  – (5) 37 60 (4) 319 
Other 5 36  –  – (2)  –  – 1  –  – 40 
Available for sale investments 372 51 (78)  – (2)  – (4) 40 65 (49) 395 

Investment property 81 114 (69)  –  –  – (10)  –  –  – 116 

Trading portfolio liabilities (7) (4) 1  –  – 2  –  – (1) 5 (4)

Certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper and other money market 
instruments (319) – 69 – – – 9 – (104) 95 (250)
Issued debt (298) – 84 – – – – – – – (214)
Other (223) – – – 204 – (6) – – 9 (16)
Financial liabilities designated  
at fair value (840) – 153 – 204 – 3 – (104) 104 (480)

Interest rate derivatives 899 58 (1)  – (208) (166) – – (11) (721) (150)
Foreign exchange derivatives 81 – –  – (12) 27 – – (13) (46) 37
Credit derivatives 1,370 5 (2)  – (29) (128) – – (69) (1) 1,146
Equity derivatives (970) (220) (14)  – 374 (43) – – (16) (7) (896)
Commodity derivatives (5) – – – – 4 – – 1 – –
Net derivative financial instruments 1,375 (157) (17)  – 125 (306) – – (108) (775) 137

Assets and liabilities held for sale 574 – (574) – – – – – – – –

Total 13,567 5,507 (5,782) – (2,634) (101) 211 40 (79) (841) 9,888
Net assets held for sale measured 
at fair value on non-recurring basis 29

Total 13,567 5,507 (5,782) – (2,634) (101) 211 40 (79) (841) 9,917

Note
a Preference shares of £390m were reclassified from others to equity cash products. 

<Page End><Page Start>
300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Unrealised gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities
The following table discloses the unrealised gains and losses recognised in the year arising on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities held at 
year end.

Unrealised gains and losses recognised during the period on Level 3 assets and liabilities held at year end
2018 2017

Income statement Other 
compre-
hensive
income

£m
Total

£m

Income statement Other 
compre-
hensive 
income

£m
Totala

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m

Trading
 income

£m

Other 
income

£m
As at 31 December
Trading portfolio assets (60) – – (60) (34) – – (34)
Financial assets at fair value through the 
income statement 68 206 – 274 147 200 – 347
Available for sale investments – – – – – (4) 29 25
Fair value through other comprehensive 
income – – (1) (1) – – – –
Investment property – (1) – (1) – (10) – (10)
Trading portfolio liabilities (3) – – (3) 3 – – 3
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 55 – – 55 58 10 – 68
Net derivative financial instruments (14) - - (14) (301) – – (301)
Total 46 205 (1) 250 (127) 196 29 98

Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs
2018 2017

Favourable changes Unfavourable changes Favourable changes Unfavourable changes
Income

 statement
£m

Equity
£m

Income 
statement

£m
Equity

£m

Income
 statement

£m
Equity

£m

Income
 statement

£m
Equity

£m
As at 31 December
Interest rate derivatives 80 – (162) – 114 – (138) –
Foreign exchange derivatives 7 – (10) – 6 – (6) –
Credit derivatives 126 – (73) – 106 – (79) –
Equity derivatives 110 – (112) – 99 – (99) –
Commodity derivatives 1 – (1) – 3 – (3) –
Corporate debt 10 – (2) – 4 – (3) –
Non-asset backed loans 274 – (458) – 243 – (468) –
Asset backed securities – – – – 1 – - –
Equity cash products 121 – (155) – 12 24 (8) (24)
Private equity investments 230 – (241) – 133 13 (138) (13)
Othera 2 – (2) – 5 – (5) –
Total 961 – (1,216) – 726 37 (947) (37)

Note
a Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.

The effect of stressing unobservable inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives, alongside considering the impact of using alternative 
models, would be to increase fair values by up to £961m (2017: £763m) or to decrease fair values by up to £1,216m (2017: £984m) with all the 
potential effect impacting profit and loss. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 301

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Significant unobservable inputs
The following table discloses the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities recognised at fair value and 
classified as Level 3 along with the range of values used for those significant unobservable inputs:

Valuation
technique(s)c

Significant 
unobservable inputs

2018
Range

2017
Range

Min Max Min Max Unitsa

Derivative financial 
instrumentsb

Interest rate derivatives Discounted cash flows Inflation forwards 1 2 1 3 %
Credit spread 6 897 45 1,320 bps

Yield 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 bps
Comparable pricing Price – 100 – 100 points

Option model Inflation volatility 33 174 35 201 bps vol
IR – IR correlation (26) 100 (24) 99 %

FX – IR correlation (30) 78 (30) 24 %
Interest rate volatility 10 199 5 353 bps vol

Credit derivatives Discounted cash flows Credit spread 142 209 122 190 bps
Comparable pricing Price 10 96 97 97 points

Equity derivatives Option model Equity volatility 2 81 3 92 %
Equity – equity correlation (100) 100 (100) 100 %

Discounted cash flow Discounted margin (171) 301 (105) 301 bps
Non-derivative financial 
instruments
Non-asset backed loans Discounted cash flows Loan spread 30 531 30 596 bps

Credit spread 25 800 300 726 bps
Price – 118 – 50 points

Comparable pricing Price – 100 – 100 points
Reverse repurchase and 
repurchase agreements Discounted cash flows Funding spread (20) 139 – – bps
Asset backed securities Comparable pricing Price – 102 – 99 points
Private equity investments EBITDA multiple EBITDA multiple 7 8 8 13 Multiple

Discounted cash flows EBITDA – 153 – 129 £m
Discount margin 8 10 8 10 %

Otherd Discounted cash flows Credit spread 143 575 152 299 bps

Notes
a The units used to disclose ranges for significant unobservable inputs are percentages, points and basis points. Points are a percentage of par; for example, 100 points equals 

100% of par. A basis point equals 1/100th of 1%; for example, 150 basis points equals 1.5%.
b Certain derivative instruments are classified as Level 3 due to a significant unobservable credit spread input into the calculation of the Credit Valuation Adjustment for the      

instruments. The range of significant unobservable credit spreads is between 6-897bps (2017: 31-596bps).
c A range has not been provided for Net Asset Value as there would be a wide range reflecting the diverse nature of the positions.
d Other includes commercial real estate loans, funds and fund-linked products, asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property. 

The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the table above, and the sensitivity of fair value measurement 
of the instruments categorised as Level 3 assets or liabilities to increases in significant unobservable inputs. Where sensitivities are described, 
the inverse relationship will also generally apply.

Where reliable interrelationships can be identified between significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement, a description 
of those interrelationships is included below.

Forwards
A price or rate that is applicable to a financial transaction that will take place in the future.

In general, a significant increase in a forward in isolation will result in a fair value increase for the contracted receiver of the underlying 
(currency, bond, commodity, etc.), but the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.

Credit spread
Credit spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Credit spreads reflect 
the additional yield that a market participant demands for taking on exposure to the credit risk of an instrument and form part of the yield used 
in a discounted cash flow calculation.

In general, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation will result in a movement in a fair value decrease for a cash asset.

For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the 
specific terms of the instrument.

<Page End><Page Start>
302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statementsNotes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Volatility
Volatility is a measure of the variability or uncertainty in return for a given derivative underlying. It is an estimate of how much a particular 
underlying instrument input or index will change in value over time. In general, volatilities are implied from observed option prices. For 
unobservable options the implied volatility may reflect additional assumptions about the nature of the underlying risk, and the strike/maturity 
profile of a specific contract.

In general a significant increase in volatility in isolation will result in a fair value increase for the holder of a simple option, but the sensitivity 
is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument. 

There may be interrelationships between unobservable volatilities and other unobservable inputs (e.g. when equity prices fall, implied equity 
volatilities generally rise) but these are generally specific to individual markets and may vary over time.

Correlation
Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables. Correlation can be a significant input into valuation of 
derivative contracts with more than one underlying instrument. Credit correlation generally refers to the correlation between default processes 
for the separate names that make up the reference pool of a CDO structure.

A significant increase in correlation in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the specific terms of the instrument.

Comparable price
Comparable instrument prices are used in valuation by calculating an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of 
a comparable observable instrument, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to account for relevant differences such as maturity or credit quality. 
Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable and unobservable instruments in order to establish a value.

In general, a significant increase in comparable price in isolation will result in an increase in the price of the unobservable instrument. For 
derivatives, a change in the comparable price in isolation can result in a fair value increase or decrease depending on the specific terms of the 
instrument.

Loan spread
Loan spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Loan spreads 
typically reflect credit quality, the level of comparable assets such as gilts and other factors, and form part of the yield used in a discounted cash 
flow calculation.

The ESHLA portfolio primarily consists of long-dated fixed rate loans extended to counterparties in the UK Education, Social Housing and Local 
Authority sectors. The loans are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to their illiquid nature and the significance of unobservable 
loan spreads to the valuation. Valuation uncertainty arises from the long-dated nature of the portfolio, the lack of secondary market in the loans 
and the lack of observable loan spreads. The majority of ESHLA loans are to borrowers in heavily regulated sectors that are considered extremely 
low credit risk, and have a history of zero defaults since inception. While the overall loan spread range is from 30bps to 531bps (2017: 30bps to 
596bps), the vast majority of spreads are concentrated towards the bottom end of this range, with 99% of the loan notional being valued with 
spreads less than 200bps consistently for both years.

In general, a significant increase in loan spreads in isolation will result in a fair value decrease for a loan.

Loss given default
Loss given default represents the expected loss upon liquidation of the collateral as a percentage of the balance outstanding.

In general, a significant increase in the loss given default in isolation will translate to lower recovery and lower projected cash flows to pay to the 
securitisation, resulting in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of the securitised product.

EBITDA multiple
EBITDA multiple is the ratio of the valuation of the investment to the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. 

In general, a significant increase in the multiple will result in a fair value increase for an investment.

Fair value adjustments
Key balance sheet valuation adjustments are quantified below:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads (457) (391)
Uncollateralised derivative funding (47) (45)
Derivative credit valuation adjustments (125) (103)
Derivative debit valuation adjustments 237 131

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads
The Barclays Group uses mid-market pricing where it is a market maker and has the ability to transact at, or better than, mid price (which is 
the case for certain equity, bond and vanilla derivative markets). For other financial assets and liabilities, bid-offer adjustments are recorded to 
reflect the exit level for the expected close out strategy. The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio 
involves calculating the net risk exposure by offsetting long and short positions by strike and term in accordance with the risk management and 
hedging strategy.

Bid-offer levels are generally derived from market quotes such as broker data. Less liquid instruments may not have a directly observable bid-offer 
level. In such instances, an exit price adjustment may be derived from an observable bid-offer level for a comparable liquid instrument, or 
determined by calibrating to derivative prices, or by scenario or historical analysis.

Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads have increased by £66m to £457m as a result of movements in market bid 
offer spreads.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 303

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Discounting approaches for derivative instruments 
Collateralised
In line with market practice, the methodology for discounting collateralised derivatives takes into account the nature and currency of the collateral 
that can be posted within the relevant credit support annex (CSA). The CSA aware discounting approach recognises the ‘cheapest to deliver' 
option that reflects the ability of the party posting collateral to change the currency of the collateral.

Uncollateralised
A fair value adjustment of £47m is applied to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised 
and partially collateralised derivative portfolios and collateralised derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not allow the rehypothecation 
of collateral received. This adjustment is referred to as the Funding Fair Value Adjustment (FFVA). FFVA has increased by £2m to £47m mainly 
as a result of change in Barclays funding spreads and trading activity.

FFVA is determined by calculating the net expected exposure at a counterparty level and applying a funding rate to the exposure that reflects the 
market cost of funding. Barclays' internal Treasury rates are used as an input to the calculation. The approach takes into account the probability 
of default of each counterparty, as well as any mandatory break clauses.

FFVA incorporates a scaling factor which is an estimate of the extent to which the cost of funding is incorporated into observed traded levels. 
On calibrating the scaling factor, it is with the assumption that Credit Valuation Adjustments (CVA) and Debit Valuation Adjustments (DVA) are 
retained as valuation components incorporated into such levels. The effect of incorporating this scaling factor at 31 December 2018 was to reduce 
FFVA by £141m (2017: £138m).

The approach outlined above has been in use since 2012 with no significant changes.

Barclays continues to monitor market practices and activity to ensure the approach to uncollateralised derivative valuation remains appropriate. 

Derivative credit and debit valuation adjustments
CVA and DVA are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit risk and Barclays' own credit 
quality respectively. These adjustments are calculated for uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives across all asset classes. CVA and 
DVA are calculated using estimates of exposure at default, probability of default and recovery rates, at a counterparty level. Counterparties include 
(but are not limited to) corporates, sovereigns and sovereign agencies and supranationals.

Exposure at default is generally estimated through the simulation of underlying risk factors through approximating with a more vanilla structure, 
or by using current or scenario-based mark to market as an estimate of future exposure. 

Probability of default and recovery rate information is generally sourced from the CDS markets. Where this information is not available, or 
considered unreliable, alternative approaches are taken based on mapping internal counterparty ratings onto historical or market-based default 
and recovery information. In particular, this applies to sovereign related names where the effect of using the recovery assumptions implied in 
CDS levels would imply a £50m (2017: £50m) increase in CVA.

Correlation between counterparty credit and underlying derivative risk factors, termed ‘wrong-way,' or ‘right-way' risk, is not systematically 
incorporated into the CVA calculation but is adjusted where the underlying exposure is directly related to the counterparty.  

CVA increased by £22m to £125m, primarily due to widening of counterparty credit spreads, changes in non-credit factors impacting CVA and 
trading activity. DVA increased by £106m to £237m, primarily as a result of Barclays' credit spreads widening.

Portfolio exemptions
The Barclays Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to measure the fair value of groups of financial assets and 
liabilities. Instruments are measured using the price that would be received to sell a net long position (i.e. an asset) for a particular risk exposure 
or to transfer a net short position (i.e. a liability) for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance 
sheet date under current market conditions. Accordingly, the Barclays Group measures the fair value of the group of financial assets and liabilities 
consistently with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.

Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs
The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price (the fair value at initial 
recognition) and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less 
amounts subsequently recognised, is £141m (2017: £109m) for financial instruments measured at fair value and £262m (2017: £253m) for 
financial instruments carried at amortised cost. There are additions of £65m (2017: £34m), and amortisation and releases of £33m (2017: £104m) 
for financial instruments measured at fair value and additions of £29m (2017: £119m) and amortisation and releases of £20m (2017: £22m) for 
financial instruments measured at amortised cost. 

Third party credit enhancements
Structured and brokered certificates of deposit issued by Barclays are insured up to $250,000 per depositor by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) in the US. The FDIC is funded by premiums that Barclays and other banks pay for deposit insurance coverage. The carrying 
value of these issued certificates of deposit that are designated under the IFRS 9 fair value option includes this third party credit enhancement. 
The on-balance sheet value of these brokered certificates of deposit amounted to £4,797m (2017: £4,070m).

<Page End><Page Start>
304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statementsNotes to the financial statements

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values for assets and liabilities not held at fair value
The following table summarises the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on the Barclays Group's balance sheet: 

2018 2017
Carrying
 amount

£m
Fair value

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m

Carrying
 amount

£m
Fair value

£m
Level 1

£m
Level 2

£m
Level 3

£m
As at 31 December
Financial assets 
Loans and advances at amortised cost
– Home loans 150,284 148,897 – – 148,897 147,002 145,262 – – 145,262
–  Credit cards, unsecured and other 

retail lending 54,560 56,462 657 – 55,805 55,767 55,106 655 – 54,451
– Finance lease receivablesa 1,886 2,057 2,854 2,964
– Corporate loans 119,676 117,848 3,942 68,955 44,951 123,532 121,666 8,986 63,930 48,750
Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending 2,308 2,308 – 2,308 – 12,546 12,546 – 12,546 –
Assets included in disposal groups 
classified as held for saleb – – – – – 1,164 1,195 – – 1,195
  
Financial liabilities 
Deposits at amortised cost
– Banks (14,166) (14,166) (4,636) (9,530) – (12,153) (12,159) (4,375) (7,784) –
– Current and demand accounts (148,714) (148,714) (148,714) – – (145,950) (145,927) (145,927) – –
– Savings accounts (137,589) (137,589) (137,589) – – (134,339) (134,369) (134,369) – –
– Other time deposits (94,369) (94,388) (57,966) (30,576) (5,846) (106,259) (106,324) (62,750) (37,723) (5,851)
Repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured borrowing (18,578) (18,578) – (18,578) – (40,338) (40,338) – (40,338) –
Debt securities in issue (82,286) (81,687) – (78,315) (3,372) (73,314) (74,752) – (72,431) (2,321)
Subordinated liabilities (20,559) (21,049) – (21,049) – (23,826) (25,084) – (25,084) –

Notes 
a The fair value hierarchy for finance lease receivables is not required as part of the standard.
b Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table.

The fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may not be appropriate to directly compare 
this fair value information to independent market sources or other financial institutions. Different valuation methodologies and assumptions can 
have a significant impact on fair values which are based on unobservable inputs.

Financial assets
The carrying value of financial assets held at amortised cost is determined in accordance with the relevant accounting policy in Note 19.

Loans and advances at amortised cost
The fair value of loans and advances, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that reflects 
the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality. Where market data or credit information on the underlying borrowers 
is unavailable, a number of proxy/extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate discount rates.

For retail lending, i.e. home loans and credit cards, tailored discounted cash flow models are predominantly used to estimate the fair value 
of different product types. For example, for home loans different models are used to estimate fair values of tracker, offset and fixed rate 
mortgage products.

Key inputs to these models are the differentials between historic and current product margins and estimated prepayment rates.

The discount of fair value to carrying amount for home loans has reduced to 0.9% (2017: 1.2%) 

The fair value of corporate loans is calculated by the use of discounted cash flow techniques where the gross loan values are discounted at a rate 
of difference between contractual margins and hurdle rates or spreads where Barclays charges a margin over LIBOR depending on credit quality 
and loss given default and years to maturity. The discount between the carrying and fair value remained constant at 1.5% (2017: 1.5%).

Reverse repurchase agreements
The fair value of reverse repurchase agreements approximates carrying amount as these balances are generally short dated and fully collateralised.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 305

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

17 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities
The carrying value of financial liabilities held at amortised cost is determined in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 1.

Deposits at amortised cost
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that 
reprice frequently, such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities.

The fair value for deposits with longer-term maturities, mainly time deposits, are estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market 
rates or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities. Consequently, the fair value discount is minimal.

Debt securities in issue
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where the instruments are short dated, carrying amount 
approximates fair value.

Repurchase agreements
The fair value of repurchase agreements approximates carrying amounts as these balances are generally short dated.

Subordinated liabilities
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issuer concerned or 
issuers with similar terms and conditions.

18 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Barclays Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis 
on the balance sheet only if there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, 
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on:
■■ all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet
■■ all derivative financial instruments and reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing 

agreements that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements, but do not qualify for balance sheet netting.

The table identifies the amounts that have been offset in the balance sheet and also those amounts that are covered by enforceable netting 
arrangements (offsetting arrangements and financial collateral) but do not qualify for netting under the requirements of IAS 32 described above.

The ‘Net amounts' presented on the next page are not intended to represent the Barclays Group's actual exposure to credit risk, as a variety 
of credit mitigation strategies are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements.

Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts not
 subject to

 enforceable
 netting

 arrange-
mentsc

£m

Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offset

Gross 
amounts

£m

Amounts
 offseta

£m

Net amounts
 reported on
 the balance

 sheet
£m

Financial
 instruments

£m

Financial
 collateralb

£m

Net 
amount

£m

Balance 
sheet totald

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Derivative financial assets 239,180 (18,687) 220,493 (172,001) (36,904) 11,588 2,045 222,538
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lendinge 354,409 (235,772) 118,637 – (118,195) 442 2,712 121,349
Total assets 593,589 (254,459) 339,130 (172,001) (155,099) 12,030 4,757 343,887
Derivative financial liabilities (233,543) 18,229 (215,314) 172,001 32,959 (10,354) (4,329) (219,643)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowinge (375,976) 235,772 (140,204) – 140,165 (39) (16,858) (157,062)
Total liabilities (609,519) 254,001 (355,518) 172,001 173,124 (10,393) (21,187) (376,705)

As at 31 December 2017
Derivative financial assets 256,881 (21,638) 235,243 (184,265) (39,262) 11,716 2,426 237,669
Reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending 326,340 (223,495) 102,845 – (102,380) 465 9,741 112,586
Total assets 583,221 (245,133) 338,088 (184,265) (141,642) 12,181 12,167 350,255
Derivative financial liabilities (253,030) 21,065 (231,965) 184,265 36,444 (11,256) (6,380) (238,345)
Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowinge (374,616) 223,495 (151,121) – 151,073 (48) (15,908) (167,029)
Total liabilities (627,646) 244,560 (383,086) 184,265 187,517 (11,304) (22,288) (405,374)

Notes
a Amounts offset for Derivative financial assets include cash collateral netted of £2,187m (2017: £2,393m). Amounts offset for Derivative financial liabilities include cash collateral 

netted of £2,645m (2017: £1,820m). Settlements assets and liabilities have been offset amounting to £23,095m (2017: £13,241m). No other significant recognised financial 
assets and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet. Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for inclusion in the table are those shown above.

b Financial collateral of £36,904m (2017: £39,262m) was received in respect of derivative assets, including £31,402m (2017: £33,092m) of cash collateral and  
£5,502m (2017: £6,170m) of non–cash collateral.  Financial collateral of £32,959m (2017: £36,444m) was placed in respect of derivative liabilities, including  
£29,842m (2017: £32,575m) of cash collateral and £3,117m (2017: £3,869m) of non-cash collateral.  The collateral amounts are limited to net balance sheet exposure  
so as to not include overcollateralisation.

c This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
d The balance sheet total is the sum of ‘Net amounts reported on the balance sheet' that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and ‘Amounts not subject to enforceable 

netting arrangements'.
e Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase agreements include instruments at amortised cost and instruments designated at fair value through profit and loss.  

Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of £121,349m (2017: £112,586m) is split by fair value £119,041m (2017: £100,040m) and amortised cost 
£2,308m (2017: £12,546m). Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of £157,062m (2017: £167,029m) is split by fair value  
£138,484m (2017: £126,691m) and amortised cost £18,578m (2017: £40,338m).

<Page End><Page Start>
306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Notes to the financial statements

18 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities continued
Derivative assets and liabilities
The ‘Financial instruments' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA 
Master Agreement or derivative exchange or clearing counterparty agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty 
can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other 
predetermined events occur.

Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained, typically daily or weekly, to cover the net exposure between counterparties 
by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur.

Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing
The ‘Amounts offset' column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as Global Master 
Repurchase Agreements and Global Master Securities Lending Agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty 
can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other 
predetermined events occur.

Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default.

These offsetting and collateral arrangements and other credit risk mitigation strategies used by Barclays Group are further explained in the Credit 
risk mitigation section on page 138.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 307

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

19 Loans and advances and deposits at amortised cost

Accounting for loans and advances and deposits held at amortised cost under IFRS 9 effective from 1 January 2018
Loans and advances to customers and banks, customer accounts, debt securities and most financial liabilities, are held at amortised cost. 
That is, the initial fair value (which is normally the amount advanced or borrowed) is adjusted for repayments and the amortisation of coupon, 
fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability. Balances deferred on-balance sheet as effective interest rate 
adjustments are amortised to interest income over the life of the financial instrument to which they relate.

Financial assets that are held in a business model to collect the contractual cash flows and that contain contractual terms that give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, are measured at amortised cost. The carrying value of these financial assets at initial recognition 
includes any directly attributable transaction costs. Refer to Note 1 for details on ‘solely payments of principal and interest'.

In determining whether the business model is a ‘hold to collect' model, the objective of the business model must be to hold the financial asset 
to collect contractual cash flows rather than holding the financial asset for trading or short-term profit taking purposes. While the objective of 
the business model must be to hold the financial asset to collect contractual cash flows this does not mean Barclays Group is required to hold 
the financial assets until maturity. When determining if the business model objective is to collect contractual cash flows Barclays Group will 
consider past sales and expectations about future sales.

Accounting for loans and advances and deposits held at amortised cost under IAS 39 for 2017 and 2016 
Loans and advances to customers and banks, customer accounts, debt securities and most financial liabilities, are held at amortised cost. 
That is, the initial fair value (which is normally the amount advanced or borrowed) is adjusted for repayments and the amortisation of coupon, 
fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability. Balances deferred on-balance sheet as effective interest rate 
adjustments are amortised to interest income over the life of the financial instrument to which they relate.

In accordance with IAS 39, where the Barclays Group no longer intends to trade in financial assets it may transfer them out of the held for 
trading classification and measure them at amortised cost if they meet the definition of a loan. The initial value used for the purposes of 
establishing amortised cost is fair value on the date of the transfer.

Loans and advances at amortised cost

As at 31 December

2018 2017
Loans to 

banks
£m

Loans to 
customers

£m
Total

£m

Loans to 
banks

£m

Loans to 
customers

£m
Total

£m
Gross loans and advances at amortised cost excluding debt securities 
at amortised cost 10,576 316,861 327,437 10,633 316,696 327,329
Less: allowance for impairment (1) (6,764) (6,765) – (4,652) (4,652)
Loans and advances at amortised cost excluding debt securities 
at amortised cost 10,575 310,097 320,672 10,633 312,044 322,677

Gross debt securities at amortised cost – 5,739 5,739 – 1,371 1,371
Less: allowance for impairment – (5) (5) – – –
Debt securities at amortised cost – 5,734 5,734 – 1,371 1,371

Total gross loans and advances at amortised cost 10,576 322,600 333,176 10,633 318,067 328,700
Less: allowance for impairment (1) (6,769) (6,770) – (4,652) (4,652)
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 10,575 315,831 326,406 10,633 313,415 324,048

Deposits at amortised cost

As at 31 December

2018 2017
Deposits from 

banks
£m

Deposits from 
customers

£m
Total

£m

Deposits from 
banks

£m

Deposits from 
customers

£m
Total

£m
Deposits at amortised cost 14,166 380,672 394,838 12,153 386,548 398,701

Notes to the financial statements

Financial instruments held at amortised cost

The notes included in this section focus on assets that are held at amortised cost arising from the Barclays Group's retail and wholesale lending 
including loans and advances and deposits at amortised cost and finance leases. Details regarding the Barclays Group's liquidity and capital 
position can be found on pages 181 to 204.

<Page End><Page Start>
308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Financial instruments held at amortised cost

20 Finance leases

Accounting for finance leases
The Barclays Group applies IAS 17 Leases in accounting for finance leases, both where it is the lessor or the lessee. A finance lease is a lease 
which confers substantially all the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. Where the Barclays Group is the lessor, the leased asset 
is not held on the balance sheet; instead a finance lease receivable is recognised representing the minimum lease payments receivable under 
the terms of the lease, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease. Where the Barclays Group is the lessee, the leased asset is 
recognised in property, plant and equipment and a finance lease liability is recognised, representing the minimum lease payments payable 
under the lease, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease.

Interest income or expense is recognised in interest receivable or payable, allocated to accounting periods to reflect a constant periodic 
rate of return.

Finance lease receivables
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances at amortised cost. The Barclays Group specialises in the provision of leasing 
and other asset finance facilities across a broad range of asset types to business customers.

2018 2017

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m

Gross
investment

in finance
lease

receivables
£m

Future
finance
income

£m

Present
value of

minimum
lease

payments
receivable

£m

Un-
guaranteed

residual
values

£m
Not more than one year 1,333 (110) 1,223 86 1,130 (91) 1,039 69
Over one year but not more than five years 2,012 (171) 1,841 148 1,750 (135) 1,615 156
Over five years 381 (44) 337 22 284 (32) 252 21
Total 3,726 (325) 3,401 256 3,164 (258) 2,906 246

The impairment allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables amounted to £87m (2017: £57m).

Finance lease liabilities
The Barclays Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases. Finance lease liabilities 
are included within Note 24.

As at 31 December 2018, the total future minimum payments under finance leases were £22m (2017: £20m). The carrying amount of assets 
held under finance leases was £19m (2017: £9m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 309

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

21 Property, plant and equipment

Accounting for property, plant and equipment
The Barclays Group applies IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Properties.

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation 
and provisions for impairment, if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in enhancement of the asset. 

Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful economic lives. Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items of property, 
plant and equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances. The Barclays Group uses the following annual 
rates in calculating depreciation:

Annual rates in calculating depreciation Depreciation rate 
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property (more than 50 years to run) 2-3.3%
Leasehold property over the remaining life of the lease (less than 50 years to run) Over the remaining life of the lease 
Costs of adaptation of freehold and leasehold property 6-10%
Equipment installed in freehold and leasehold property 6-10%
Computers and similar equipment 17-33%
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 9-20%

Costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the shorter of the life of the lease or the depreciation rates noted 
in the table above. 

Investment property
The Barclays Group initially recognises investment property at cost, and subsequently at fair value at each balance sheet date, reflecting 
market conditions at the reporting date. Gains and losses on remeasurement are included in the income statement.

Investment
property

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m

Leased
assets

£m
Total

£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2018 116 3,493 2,748 9 6,366
Additions 9 217 262 – 488
Disposals (115) (83) (99) – (297)
Change in fair value of investment properties (3) – – – (3)
Exchange and other movements 2 57 45 – 104
As at 31 December 2018 9 3,684 2,956 9 6,658
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2018 – (1,668) (2,117) (9) (3,794)
Depreciation charge – (166) (252) – (418)
Impairment – (3) – – (3)
Disposals – 73 79 – 152
Exchange and other movements – (28) (32) – (60)
As at 31 December 2018 – (1,792) (2,322) (9) (4,123)
Net book value 9 1,892 634 – 2,535
Cost
As at 1 January 2017 81 3,429 3,840 10 7,360
Additions 114 220 299 – 633
Disposals (69) (18) (1,082) (1) (1,170)
Change in fair value of investment properties (5) – – – (5)
Exchange and other movements (5) (138) (309) – (452)
As at 31 December 2017 116 3,493 2,748 9 6,366
Accumulated depreciation and impairment –
As at 1 January 2017 – (1,483) (3,043) (9) (4,535)
Depreciation charge – (171) (275) – (446)
Impairment – (28) – – (28)
Disposals – – 972 – 972
Exchange and other movements – 14 229 – 243
As at 31 December 2017 – (1,668) (2,117) (9) (3,794)
Net book value 116 1,825 631 – 2,572

Non-current assets and other investments
Notes to the financial statements

The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Group's non-current tangible and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, 
which provide long-term future economic benefits.

<Page End><Page Start>
310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

21 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property rentals of nil (2017: £2m) and £19m (2017: £8m) have been included in net investment income and other income respectively.

The fair value of investment property is determined by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as necessary for condition 
and location, or by reference to recent transactions updated to reflect current economic conditions. Discounted cash flow techniques may be 
employed to calculate fair value where there have been no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market rents and 
interest rates. Valuations are carried out by management with the support of appropriately qualified independent valuers. Refer to Note 17 for 
further details.

22 Goodwill and intangible assets

Accounting for goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value 
of the Barclays Group's share of the assets acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.

Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred. The test 
involves comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of the pre-tax cash flows, discounted at a rate of interest that reflects 
the inherent risks, of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the goodwill relates, or the CGU's fair value if this is higher. 

Intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.

Intangible assets are initially recognised when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be measured 
reliably and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic benefits 
attributable to the assets will flow from their use.

Intangible assets are stated at cost (which is, in the case of assets acquired in a business combination, the acquisition date fair value) less 
accumulated amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner that reflects the pattern 
to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally using the amortisation periods set out below:

Annual rates in calculating amortisation Amortisation period
Goodwill Not amortised
Internally generated softwarea 12 months to 6 years
Other software 12 months to 6 years
Customer lists 12 months to 25 years
Licences and other 12 months to 25 years

Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.
Note
a Exceptions to the above rate relate to useful lives of certain core banking platforms that are assessed individually and, if appropriate, amortised over longer periods ranging 

from 10 to 15 years.

Non-current assets and other investments

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 311

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

22 Goodwill and intangible assets continued

Goodwill
£m

Internally 
generated 

software
£m

Other 
software

£m

Customer 
lists
£m

Licences 
and other

£m
Total

£m
2018
Cost 
As at 1 January 2018 4,759 5,501 427 1,547 519 12,753
Additions and disposals – 280 (34) – 12 258
Exchange and other movements 9 54 (4) 83 27 169
As at 31 December 2018 4,768 5,835 389 1,630 558 13,180
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2018 (860) (2,195) (313) (1,209) (327) (4,904)
Disposals – 530 101 – 13 644
Amortisation charge – (669) (50) (81) (34) (834)
Impairment charge – (6) – – – (6)
Exchange and other movements (1) (22) 8 (69) (23) (107)
As at 31 December 2018 (861) (2,362) (254) (1,359) (371) (5,207)
Net book value 3,907 3,473 135 271 187 7,973
2017
Cost 
As at 1 January 2017 4,847 4,927 204 1,708 551 12,237
Additions and disposals – 662 16 (15) 13 676
Exchange and other movements (88) (88) 207 (146) (45) (160)
As at 31 December 2017 4,759 5,501 427 1,547 519 12,753
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2017 (930) (1,864) (143) (1,231) (343) (4,511)
Disposals – 207 10 15 24 256
Amortisation charge – (546) (32) (101) (36) (715)
Impairment charge – (52) – – – (52)
Exchange and other movements 70 60 (148) 108 28 118
As at 31 December 2017 (860) (2,195) (313) (1,209) (327) (4,904)
Net book value 3,899 3,306 114 338 192 7,849

Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments as follows:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Barclays UK 3,526 3,526
Barclays International 334 325
Head Office 47 48
Total net book value of goodwill 3,907 3,899

Goodwill
Testing goodwill for impairment involves a significant amount of judgement. This includes the identification of independent CGUs and the 
allocation of goodwill to these units based on which units are expected to benefit from the acquisition. The allocation is reviewed following 
business reorganisations. Cash flow projections necessarily take into account changes in the market in which a business operates including 
the level of growth, competitive activity, and the impacts of regulatory change. Determining both the expected pre-tax cash flows and the risk 
adjusted interest rate appropriate to the operating unit requires the exercise of judgement. The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive 
to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding long-term sustainable cash flows.

Other intangible assets
Determining the estimated useful lives of intangible assets (such as those arising from contractual relationships) requires an analysis of 
circumstances. The assessment of whether an asset is exhibiting indicators of impairment as well as the calculation of impairment, which 
requires the estimate of future cash flows and fair values less costs to sell, also requires the preparation of cash flow forecasts and fair values 
for assets that may not be regularly bought and sold.

Impairment testing of goodwill 
During 2018, the Barclays Group recognised an impairment charge of nil (2017: nil). 

Key assumptions
The key assumptions used for impairment testing are set out below for each significant goodwill balance. Other goodwill of £560m 
(2017: £769m) was allocated to multiple CGUs which are not considered individually significant.

<Page End><Page Start>
312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

22 Goodwill and intangible assets continued
Barclays UK
Goodwill within Personal Banking was £2,718m (2017: £2,718m) of which £2,501m (2017: £2,501m) was attributable to Woolwich and within 
Business Banking was £629m (2017: £629m), fully attributable to Woolwich. The carrying value of the CGUs have been determined by using 
net asset values. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs, calculated as value in use, have been determined using cash flow predictions based on 
financial budgets approved by management, covering a five-year period, with a terminal growth rate of 1.8% (2017: 2%) applied thereafter. The 
forecasted cash flows have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 13.7% (2017: 13.9%). Based on these assumptions, the total recoverable amount 
exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by £7,762m (2017: £5,262m). A one percentage point change in the discount rate or terminal 
growth rate would increase or decrease the recoverable amount by £1,501m (2017: £1,128m) and £980m (2017: £734m) respectively. A reduction 
in the forecasted cash flows of 10% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount by £1,828m (2017: £1,409m).

23 Operating leases

Accounting for operating leases
The Barclays Group applies IAS 17 Leases, for operating leases. An operating lease is a lease where substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the leased assets remain with the lessor. Where the Barclays Group is the lessor, lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease unless another systematic basis is more appropriate. The Barclays Group holds the leased assets on-balance sheet within 
property, plant and equipment. 

Where the Barclays Group is the lessee, rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term unless another systematic basis is more appropriate. 

Operating lease commitments
The Barclays Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. With such operating 
lease arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessor's balance sheet and the Barclays Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an 
expense over the lease term. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. 

Operating lease rentals of £329m (2017: £342m) have been included in administration and general expenses.

The future minimum lease payments by the Barclays Group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

2018 2017
Property

£m
Equipment

£m
Property

£m
Equipment

£m
Not more than one year 302 – 332 2
Over one year but not more than five years 786 – 844 21
Over five years 1,257 – 1,337 –
Total 2,345 – 2,513 23

Total future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases was £28m (2017: £53m). 

Non-current assets and other investments

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 313

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings

Notes to the financial statements

24 Other liabilities
2018

£m
2017

£m
Accruals and deferred income 3,877 3,951
Other creditors 3,522 4,563
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 277 446
Obligations under finance leases (refer to Note 20) 22 20
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 18 31
Other liabilities 7,716 9,011

25 Provisions

Accounting for provisions
The Barclays Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in accounting for non-financial liabilities.

Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer 
of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, which can be reliably estimated. Provision is made for the anticipated cost 
of restructuring, including redundancy costs when an obligation exists; for example, when the Barclays Group has a detailed formal plan for 
restructuring a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by announcing its main features or starting 
to implement the plan. Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the 
recognition of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The financial reporting of provisions involves a significant degree of judgement and is complex. Identifying whether a present obligation exists 
and estimating the probability, timing, nature and quantum of the outflows that may arise from past events requires judgements to be made 
based on the specific facts and circumstances relating to individual events and often requires specialist professional advice. When matters 
are at an early stage, accounting judgements and estimates can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty involved. Management 
continues to monitor matters as they develop to re-evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, however there 
can remain a wide range of possible outcomes and uncertainties, particularly in relation to legal, competition and regulatory matters, and 
as a result it is often not practicable to make meaningful estimates even when matters are at a more advanced stage. 

The complexity of such matters often requires the input of specialist professional advice in making assessments to produce estimates. 
Customer redress and legal, competition and regulatory matters are areas where a higher degree of professional judgement is required. 
The amount that is recognised as a provision can also be very sensitive to the assumptions made in calculating it. This gives rise to a large 
range of potential outcomes which require judgement in determining an appropriate provision level. See below for information on payment 
protection redress and Note 27 for more detail of legal, competition and regulatory matters.

Undrawn Legal,
contractually Customer redress competition

Redundancy committed Payment Other and
Onerous and facilities and Protection customer regulatory Sundry

contracts restructuring guaranteesa Insurance redress matters provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m

As at 1 January 2018 225 159 420 1,606 639 435 400 3,884
Additions 74 170 463 400 182 1,716 89 3,094
Amounts utilised (135) (102) (11) (1,118) (328) (1,680) (86) (3,460)
Unused amounts reversed (26) (56) (588) – (48) (98) (42) (858)
Exchange and other movements 1 (2) (13) – (1) 41 (34) (8)
As at 31 December 2018 139 169 271 888 444 414 327 2,652

Note
a Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provisions are accounted for under IFRS 9.

Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31 December 2018 were £2,144m (2017: £2,394m).

Onerous contracts
Onerous contract provisions comprise an estimate of the costs involved with fulfilling the terms and conditions of contracts net of any 
expected benefits to be received.

Redundancy and restructuring
These provisions comprise the estimated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists. Additions made during 
the year relate to formal restructuring plans and have either been utilised, or reversed, where total costs are now expected to be lower than the 
original provision amount.

The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Group's accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities. Provisions are recognised for 
present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle 
the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Contingent liabilities reflect potential liabilities that are not recognised on the balance sheet.

<Page End><Page Start>
314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings
25 Provisions continued
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees
Impairment allowance under IFRS 9 considers both the drawn and the undrawn counterparty exposure. For retail portfolios, the total impairment 
allowance is allocated to the drawn exposure to the extent that the allowance does not exceed the exposure as ECL is not reported separately. 
Any excess is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as a provision. For wholesale portfolios, the impairment allowance on the undrawn 
exposure is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as a provision. Provisions are made if it is probable that a facility will be drawn and 
the resulting asset is expected to have a realisable value that is less than the amount advanced.

Customer redress
Customer redress provisions comprise the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers, clients and counterparties for losses 
or damages associated with inappropriate judgement in the execution of Barclays Group's business activities. Provisions for other customer 
redress include smaller provisions across the retail and corporate businesses which are likely to be utilised in the next 12 months. 

Legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Group is engaged in various legal proceedings, both in the UK and a number of other overseas jurisdictions, including the US. 
For further information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion of the associated uncertainties, refer to Note 27. 

Sundry provisions
This category includes provisions that do not fit into any of the other categories, such as fraud losses and dilapidation provisions.

Payment Protection Insurance Redress
As at 31 December 2018, Barclays Group had recognised cumulative provisions totalling £9.6bn (2017: £9.2bn), of which £0.4bn was recognised 
in Q1 2018, against the cost of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) redress and associated processing costs. Utilisation of the cumulative 
provisions to date is £8.7bn (2017: £7.6bn), leaving a residual provision of £0.9bn (2017: £1.6bn).

Through to 31 December 2018, 2.4m (2017: 2.1m) customer initiated claimsa had been received and processed. 

The current provision reflects the estimated costs of PPI redress primarily relating to customer initiated complaints and ongoing remediation 
programmes, based on information at year end. This also includes liabilities managed by third parties arising from portfolios previously sold 
where Barclays Group remains liable.

As at 31 December 2018, the provision of £0.9bn represents Barclays Group's best estimate of expected PPI redress reflecting the complaints 
deadline implemented by the FCA of 29 August 2019. However, it is possible the eventual outcome may differ from the current estimate. 
Barclays Group will continue to review the adequacy of provision level in respect of the future impacts. 

The PPI provision is calculated using a number of key assumptions which continue to involve significant modelling and management judgement:
■■ Customer initiated claim volumes – claims received but not yet processed plus an estimate of future claims initiated by customers, 

where the volume is anticipated to cease after the PPI deadline.
■■ Average claim redress – the expected average payment to customers for upheld claims based on the type and age of the policy/policies.
■■ Processing cost per claim – the cost to Barclays Group of assessing and processing each valid claim. 

These assumptions remain subjective, mainly due to the uncertainty associated with future claims levels, which include complaints driven 
by claims management company (CMC) activity and the FCA advertising campaign. 

The following table outlines key forecast assumptions used in the provision calculation as at 31 December 2018 and a sensitivity analysis 
illustrating the impact on the provision if the future expected assumptions prove too high or too low.

Assumption

Cumulative 
actual to 
31.12.18

Future 
expected

Sensitivity 
analysis 

increase/
decrease in 

provision
Customer initiated claims received and processed (thousands)a 2,400 290 50k=£117m
Average uphold rate per claim (%)b 89 91 1%=£6m
Average redress per valid claim (£)c 2,136 2,233 £100=£26m

Notes
a Total mis-selling claims received directly by Barclays Group, including those received via CMCs but excluding those for which no PPI policy exists and excluding responses to 

proactive mailing. The sensitivity analysis has been calculated to show the impact a 50,000 increase or decrease in the number of customer initiated mis-selling policy claims 
would have on the provision level inclusive of operational processing costs.

b Average uphold rate per customer initiated mis-selling claim received directly by Barclays Group and proactive mailings, excluding those for which no PPI policy exists. 
The sensitivity analysis has been calculated to show the impact a 1% change in the average uphold rate per claim would have on the provision level. 

c Average redress stated on a per policy basis for future customer initiated mis-selling complaints received directly by Barclays Group. The sensitivity analysis has been calculated 
to show the impact a £100 increase or decrease in the average redress per claim would have on the provision level.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 315

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

26 Contingent liabilities and commitments

Accounting for contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where 
the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet 
but are disclosed unless the likelihood of an outflow of economic resources is remote.

The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments which are not recorded on-balance sheet:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,805 14,275
Performance guarantees, acceptances and endorsements 4,498 4,737
Total contingent liabilities 20,303 19,012
Of which: Financial guarantees carried at fair value 4

Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 1,741 812
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitmentsa 322,482 314,761
Total commitments 324,223 315,573
Of which: Loan commitments carried at fair value 11,723

Provisions held against contingent liabilities and commitments equal £271m. Post IFRS 9, loan commitments carried at fair value amounted to 
£18.9bn as 1 January 2018.

The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the FSCS) is the UK's government-backed compensation scheme for customers of authorised 
institutions that are unable to pay claims. The compensation paid out to customers is funded through loan facilities provided by HM Treasury 
to the FSCS which at 31 December 2018 has been completely repaid and has nil balance (2017: £4.7bn). 

Further details on contingent liabilities relating to legal and competition and regulatory matters can be found in Note 27.

27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters 
Members of the Barclays Group face legal, competition and regulatory challenges, many of which are beyond our control. The extent of the 
impact on Barclays of these matters cannot always be predicted but may materially impact our operations, financial results, condition and 
prospects. Matters arising from a set of similar circumstances can give rise to either a contingent liability or a provision, or both, depending 
on the relevant facts and circumstances. The recognition of provisions in relation to such matters involves critical accounting estimates and 
judgements in accordance with the relevant accounting policies as described in Note 25, Provisions. We have not disclosed an estimate of 
the potential financial effect on Barclays of contingent liabilities where it is not currently practicable to do so.

In connection with the implementation of structural reform in the UK, on 1 April 2018, the UK banking business was transferred from Barclays 
Bank PLC to Barclays Bank UK PLC, a separate subsidiary of Barclays PLC. Although the matters described below are relevant to Barclays PLC either 
on an individual or on a consolidated basis, certain matters may relate to either or both of Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC. Matters 
are ordered under headings corresponding to the financial statements in which they are disclosed.

1. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC
Investigations into certain advisory services agreements and other matters and civil action
The UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO), the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the US Department of Justice (DoJ) and the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) have been conducting investigations into two advisory services agreements entered into by Barclays Bank PLC. 
These agreements were entered into with Qatar Holding LLC (Qatar Holding) in June and October 2008 (the Agreements). The FCA commenced 
an investigation into whether the Agreements may have related to Barclays PLC's capital raisings in June and November 2008 (the Capital 
Raisings). The existence of the June 2008 advisory services agreement was disclosed, but the entry into the advisory services agreement in 
October 2008 and the fees payable under the Agreements, which amounted to a total of £322m payable over a period of five years, were not 
disclosed in the announcements or public documents relating to the Capital Raisings. The SFO also commenced an investigation into the 
Agreements and into a $3bn loan (the Loan) provided by Barclays Bank PLC in November 2008 to the State of Qatar.

SFO Proceedings
In 2017, the SFO charged Barclays PLC with two offences of conspiring with certain former senior officers and employees of Barclays to commit 
fraud by false representations relating to the Agreements and one offence of unlawful financial assistance in relation to the Loan. In February 2018, 
the SFO also charged Barclays Bank PLC with the same offence in respect of the Loan. In May 2018, the Crown Court dismissed all charges against 
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and in October 2018, the High Court denied the SFO's application to reinstate the charges, which were 
consequently dismissed.

<Page End><Page Start>
316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings
27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
FCA Proceedings and other investigations
In 2013, the FCA issued warning notices (the Notices) finding that, while Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believed at the time of the execution 
of the Agreements that there should be at least some unspecified and undetermined value to be derived from them, the primary purpose of the 
Agreements was not to obtain advisory services but to make additional payments, which would not be disclosed, for the Qatari participation 
in the Capital Raisings. The Notices concluded that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC were in breach of certain disclosure-related listing rules 
and Barclays PLC was also in breach of Listing Principle 3 (the requirement to act with integrity towards holders and potential holders of the 
Company's shares). In this regard, the FCA considers that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC acted recklessly. The financial penalty provided 
in the Notices against Barclays is £50m. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC continue to contest the findings. The FCA action has been stayed 
due to the SFO proceedings pending against certain former Barclays executives, trial in respect of which commenced in January 2019. 

In addition, the DoJ and the SEC have been conducting investigations relating to the Agreements.

Civil Action
In 2016, PCP Capital Partners LLP and PCP International Finance Limited (PCP) served a claim on Barclays Bank PLC seeking damages for 
fraudulent misrepresentation and deceit, arising from alleged statements made by Barclays Bank PLC to PCP in relation to the terms on which 
securities were to be issued to potential investors, allegedly including PCP, in the November 2008 capital raising. PCP seeks damages of up to 
£1,477m (plus interest from November 2017) and costs. Barclays Bank PLC is defending the claim and trial is scheduled to commence in 
October 2019.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might 
have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. The financial penalty provided in the FCA's 
Notices against Barclays is £50m. PCP has made a claim against Barclays Bank PLC for damages of up to £1,477m plus interest and costs. 
These amounts do not necessarily reflect Barclays' potential financial exposure in respect of these matters.

Investigations into certain business relationships 
In 2012, the DoJ and SEC commenced investigations in relation to whether certain relationships with third parties who assist Barclays PLC to win 
or retain business are compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Various regulators in other jurisdictions are also being briefed on the 
investigations. Separately, Barclays is cooperating with the DoJ and SEC in relation to an investigation into certain of its hiring practices in Asia 
and elsewhere and is keeping certain regulators in other jurisdictions informed.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Investigations relating to whistleblowing systems and controls
In 2017, the FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) commenced investigations into the Barclays Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO), 
relating to his attempt in 2016 to identify the author of a letter that was treated by Barclays Bank PLC as a whistleblow, and into Barclays Bank PLC, 
as to its responsibilities relating to the attempt by the CEO to identify the author of the letter, as well as Barclays' systems and controls and culture 
relating to whistleblowing.

In May 2018, the FCA and PRA published final notices confirming their finding that the CEO's actions in relation to this matter represented 
a breach of Individual Conduct Rule 2 (requirement to act with due skill, care and diligence). There were no findings by the FCA or PRA that the CEO 
acted with a lack of integrity nor any findings that he lacked fitness and propriety to continue to perform his role as Group Chief Executive Officer.

In respect of its investigation relating to Barclays Bank PLC, the FCA and PRA concluded that they would not take enforcement action in respect 
of this matter. However, each of Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC agreed to be subject to requirements to report to the FCA and PRA 
on certain aspects of their whistleblowing programmes.

The New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also conducted their own investigations in 
respect of this matter. In December 2018, the NYDFS issued a consent order that imposed a $15m civil penalty on Barclays Bank PLC, which has 
been paid, for failings in its whistleblowing programme as well as certain remediation and reporting obligations related to its whistleblowing 
programme. All regulatory investigations relating to these events are now concluded.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Aside from the settlement discussed above, there is no financial impact on Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position.

Investigations into LIBOR and other benchmarks
Regulators and law enforcement agencies, including certain competition authorities, from a number of governments have been conducting 
investigations relating to Barclays Bank PLC's involvement in manipulating certain financial benchmarks, such as LIBOR and EURIBOR. In 2012, 
Barclays Bank PLC announced that it had reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (as predecessor to the FCA), the 
US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the DoJ in relation to their investigations concerning certain benchmark interest rate 
submissions, and Barclays Bank PLC paid total penalties of £290m. The settlement with the DoJ was made by entry into a Non-Prosecution 
Agreement (NPA) which has now expired. Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. (BCI) have reached settlements with certain 
other regulators and law enforcement agencies. Barclays Bank PLC continues to respond to requests for information from the SFO in relation 
to its ongoing LIBOR investigation, including in respect of Barclays Bank PLC.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described on Barclays or what effect they might have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

LIBOR and other benchmark civil actions 
Following settlement of the investigations referred to above in ‘Investigations into LIBOR and other benchmarks', various individuals and 
corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against Barclays and other banks in relation to LIBOR and/or other 
benchmarks. While certain cases have been dismissed, settled or settled subject to final approval from the relevant court (and in the case of class 
actions, the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims), other actions remain pending and their 
ultimate impact is unclear.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 317

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
USD LIBOR Cases in the Multidistrict Litigation Court
The majority of the USD LIBOR cases, which have been filed in various US jurisdictions, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes before 
a single judge in the US District Court in the Southern District of New York (SDNY).

The complaints are substantially similar and allege, amongst other things, that Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other financial institutions 
individually and collectively violated provisions of the US Sherman Antitrust Act (Antitrust Act), the US Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), the US 
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and various state laws by manipulating USD 
LIBOR rates.

Certain of the proposed class actions have been settled. Barclays has settled claims purportedly brought on behalf of plaintiffs that (i) engaged 
in USD LIBOR-linked over-the-counter transactions (OTC Class); (ii) purchased USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments on an exchange; (iii) 
purchased USD LIBOR-linked debt securities; or (iv) issued loans linked to USD LIBOR (Lender Class) and paid $120m, $20m, $7.1m and $4m 
respectively. The settlements with the OTC Class and the Lender Class have received final court approval. The other settlements remain subject 
to final court approval and/or the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.

The remaining putative class actions and individual actions seek unspecified damages with the exception of five lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs 
are seeking a combined total in excess of $1.25bn in actual damages against all defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, plus punitive damages. 
Some of the lawsuits also seek trebling of damages under the Antitrust Act and RICO.

EURIBOR Case in the SDNY
In 2015, $94m was paid in settlement of a EURIBOR-related class action. The court granted final approval of Barclays' settlement in May 2018.

Additional USD LIBOR Cases in the SDNY
In 2015, an individual action against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank defendants was dismissed by the SDNY. The plaintiff alleged that the 
panel bank defendants conspired to increase USD LIBOR, which caused the value of bonds pledged as collateral for a loan to decrease, ultimately 
resulting in the sale of the bonds at a low point in the market. In March 2018, the court denied the plaintiff 's motion for leave to amend its 
complaint and dismissed the case. The plaintiff 's appeal of the court's order is pending.

In January 2019, two putative class actions were filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, other financial institution 
defendants and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) and certain of its affiliates, asserting antitrust and unjust enrichment claims on allegations 
that, beginning in 2014, defendants manipulated USD LIBOR through defendants' submissions to ICE, which took over rate-setting duties for 
LIBOR from the British Bankers' Association in 2014. These two actions were consolidated in February 2019.

Sterling LIBOR Case in SDNY
In 2015, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved 
in exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives that were linked to Sterling LIBOR. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the 
defendants manipulated the Sterling LIBOR rate between 2005 and 2010 and, in so doing, committed CEA, Antitrust Act, and RICO violations. 
In 2016, this class action was consolidated with an additional putative class action making similar allegations against Barclays Bank PLC and 
BCI and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks. The defendants' motion to dismiss was granted in December 2018. The plaintiff has asked the court 
to reconsider this decision.

Japanese Yen LIBOR Cases in SDNY
In 2012, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Japanese Yen LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved 
in exchange-traded derivatives. The complaint also names members of the Japanese Bankers Association's Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate 
(Euroyen TIBOR) panel, of which Barclays Bank PLC is not a member. The complaint alleges, amongst other things, manipulation of the Euroyen 
TIBOR and Yen LIBOR rates and breaches of the CEA and Antitrust Act between 2006 and 2010. In 2014, the court dismissed the plaintiff 's 
antitrust claims in full, but the plaintiff 's CEA claims remain pending. Discovery is ongoing.

In 2017, a second putative class action concerning Yen LIBOR which was filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI 
was dismissed in full. The complaint makes similar allegations to the 2012 class action. The plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal.

SIBOR/SOR Case in the SDNY
In 2016, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other defendants, alleging manipulation 
of the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate (SIBOR) and Singapore Swap Offer Rate (SOR). The plaintiffs amended their complaint in 2017 following 
dismissal by the court of the claims against Barclays for failure to state a claim. In October 2018, the court dismissed all claims against Barclays 
PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI, a decision that the plaintiffs are challenging.

Non-US Benchmarks Cases
In addition to the US actions described above, legal proceedings have been brought or threatened against Barclays in connection with alleged 
manipulation of LIBOR and EURIBOR and other benchmarks in the UK, including the matter referred to below in ‘Local authority civil actions 
concerning LIBOR' that is also related to Barclays Bank UK PLC, as well as in a number of other jurisdictions in Europe, Israel and Argentina. 
Additional proceedings in other jurisdictions may be brought in the future.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described on Barclays or what effect they might have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

<Page End><Page Start>
318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings
27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Foreign Exchange Investigations
Various regulatory and enforcement authorities across multiple jurisdictions have been investigating a range of issues associated with Foreign 
Exchange sales and trading, including electronic trading. 

In 2015 Barclays reached settlements with the CFTC, the DoJ, the NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) 
and the FCA (together, the 2015 Resolving Authorities) in relation to investigations into certain sales and trading practices in the Foreign 
Exchange market. In connection with these settlements, Barclays paid total penalties of approximately $2.38bn and agreed to undertake certain 
remedial actions.

Under the plea agreement with the DoJ, in addition to a criminal fine, Barclays PLC agreed to a term of probation of three years during which 
Barclays PLC, including its subsidiaries, must, amongst other things, (i) commit no crime whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, 
(ii) implement and continue to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement, 
(iii) report credible evidence of criminal violations of US antitrust or fraud laws to the relevant US authority, and (iv) strengthen its compliance and 
internal controls as required by relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies. In January 2017, the US District Court for the District of Connecticut 
accepted the plea agreement and in accordance with the agreement sentenced Barclays PLC to pay $650m as a fine and $60m for violating the 
NPA (which amounts are part of the $2.38bn referred to above) and to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing order. 
Barclays also continues to provide relevant information to certain of the 2015 Resolving Authorities.

The European Commission is one of a number of authorities still conducting an investigation into certain trading practices in the Foreign 
Exchange market.

The DoJ has also conducted an investigation into conduct relating to certain trading activities in connection with certain transactions during 
2011 and 2012. Barclays has been providing information to the DoJ and other relevant authorities reviewing this conduct. In February 2018, the 
DoJ issued a letter closing its investigation of Barclays in exchange for, among other things, Barclays' agreement to pay $12.9m in disgorgement 
and restitution, which can be offset by any settlement amount paid as civil restitution. Barclays resolved a related civil dispute. The amount paid 
was not material to Barclays.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described on Barclays or what effect they might have on Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Civil actions in respect of Foreign Exchange
Following settlement of certain investigations referred to above in ‘Foreign Exchange Investigations' a number of individuals and corporates 
in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against Barclays and other banks in relation to Foreign Exchange or may 
do so in the future. Certain of these cases have been dismissed, settled or settled subject to final approval from the relevant court (and in 
the case of class actions, the right of class members to opt out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims).

Consolidated FX Action
In 2014, a number of civil actions filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of Foreign Exchange 
markets under the Antitrust Act and New York state law and naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, 
were combined into a single consolidated action (Consolidated FX Action). In 2015, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI settled the Consolidated FX 
Action and paid $384m. The settlement received final court approval in August 2018. 

FX Opt Out Action
In November 2018, a group of 16 plaintiffs (and several of their affiliates) who opted out of the Consolidated FX Action settlement filed a complaint 
in the SDNY against the Consolidated FX Action defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC and BCI. 

ERISA FX Action
Since 2015, several civil actions have been filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs purporting to allege different legal theories 
of injury (other than those alleged in the Consolidated FX Action) related to alleged manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates, including claims 
under the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) statute (ERISA Claims), and naming several international banks as defendants, 
including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI. The Court dismissed the ERISA Claims. This dismissal was affirmed on appeal in 2018 and 
is not subject to further appeal.

Retail Basis Action
A putative action was filed in the Northern District of California (and subsequently transferred to the SDNY) against several international banks, 
including Barclays PLC and BCI, on behalf of a putative class of individuals that exchanged currencies on a retail basis at bank branches (Retail 
Basis Claims). The Court has ruled that the Retail Basis Claims are not covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action. The 
Court subsequently dismissed all Retail Basis Claims against Barclays and all other defendants. The plaintiffs amended their complaint and sought 
to expand the action to include credit card, debit card and wire transactions, which expansion the Court denied. 

State Law FX Action
In 2016, a putative class action was filed in the SDNY under federal, New York and California law on behalf of proposed classes of stockholders of 
Exchange Traded Funds and others who supposedly were indirect investors in FX Instruments. The plaintiffs' counsel subsequently amended the 
complaint to bring claims on behalf of a proposed class of investors under federal and various state laws who traded FX Instruments through FX 
dealers or brokers not alleged to have manipulated Foreign Exchange Rates. A different group of plaintiffs subsequently filed another action and 
asserted substantively similar claims. These two actions were consolidated and a consolidated complaint was filed in 2017. The consolidated 
action was dismissed, but the plaintiffs were permitted to file an amended complaint, except as to their federal claims, in November 2018.

Non-US FX Actions 
In addition to the actions described above, legal proceedings have been brought or are threatened against Barclays in connection with 
manipulation of Foreign Exchange in the UK, a number of other jurisdictions in Europe and Israel, and additional proceedings may be brought 
in the future.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 319

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Aside from the settlement described above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions 
described on Barclays or what effect they might have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Metals investigations
Barclays Bank PLC has provided information to the DoJ, the CFTC and other authorities in connection with investigations into metals and 
metals-based financial instruments.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Civil actions in respect of the gold and silver fix
A number of civil complaints, each on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, have been consolidated and transferred to the SDNY. The complaints 
allege that Barclays Bank PLC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Ltd. manipulated the prices of gold and gold derivative 
contracts in violation of the CEA, the Antitrust Act, and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. 

Also, in the US, a proposed class of plaintiffs filed a complaint against a number of banks, including Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and Barclays Capital 
Services Ltd., alleging manipulation of the price of silver in violation of the CEA and antitrust laws. The court has dismissed this action as against 
the Barclays entities.

Civil actions have also been filed in Canadian courts against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Capital Canada Inc., BCI and Barclays Capital 
PLC on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of gold and silver prices in violation of Canadian law. 

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

US residential and commercial mortgage-related activity and litigation
There have been various investigations and civil litigation relating to secondary market trading of US Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities 
(RMBS) and US Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS).

DoJ Civil Action 
In December 2016, the DoJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC, BCI, Barclays Group US Inc., Barclays US LLC, BCAP LLC, 
Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC and Sutton Funding LLC, in the US District Court in the Eastern District of New York (EDNY) containing 
a number of allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold between 2005 and 2007. In March 2018, 
Barclays reached a settlement with the DoJ to resolve this complaint. Barclays paid a civil penalty of $2bn in connection with this settlement.

RMBS Repurchase Requests
Barclays was the sole provider of various loan-level representations and warranties (R&Ws) with respect to:
■■ approximately $5bn of Barclays sponsored securitisations
■■ approximately $0.2bn of sales of loans to government sponsored enterprises (GSEs), and
■■ approximately $3bn of loans sold to others.

In addition, an entity that Barclays acquired in 2007 (Acquired Subsidiary) provided R&Ws on $19.4bn of loans it sold to third parties.

R&Ws on the remaining Barclays sponsored securitisations were primarily provided by third-party originators directly to the securitisation trusts 
with a Barclays subsidiary, such as the depositor for the securitisation, providing more limited R&Ws. There are no stated expiration provisions 
applicable to most R&Ws made by Barclays, the Acquired Subsidiary or these third parties.

Under certain circumstances, Barclays and/or the Acquired Subsidiary may be required to repurchase the related loans or make other payments 
related to such loans if the R&Ws are breached.

The unresolved repurchase requests received on or before 31 December 2018 associated with all R&Ws made by Barclays or the Acquired 
Subsidiary on loans sold to GSEs and others and private-label activities had an original unpaid principal balance of approximately $2.1bn at the 
time of such sale.

The unresolved repurchase requests discussed above relate to civil actions that have been commenced by the trustees for certain RMBS 
securitisations in which the trustees allege that Barclays and/or the Acquired Subsidiary must repurchase loans that violated the operative 
R&Ws. Such trustees and other parties making repurchase requests have also alleged that the operative R&Ws may have been violated with 
respect to a greater (but unspecified) amount of loans than the amount of loans previously stated in specific repurchase requests made by 
such trustees. This litigation is ongoing.

In May 2018, the Acquired Subsidiary agreed to a settlement of a civil action relating to claims for indemnification for losses allegedly suffered 
by a loan purchaser as a result of alleged breaches of R&Ws provided by the Acquired Subsidiary in connection with loan sales to the purchaser 
during the period 1997 to 2007. The amount paid was not material to Barclays. 

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect 
they might have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

<Page End><Page Start>
320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings
27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
Alternative trading systems
In 2014, the New York State Attorney General (NYAG) filed a complaint (NYAG Complaint) against Barclays PLC and BCI in the Supreme Court 
of the State of New York alleging, amongst other things, that Barclays PLC and BCI engaged in fraud and deceptive practices in connection with 
LX, Barclays' SEC-registered alternative trading system (ATS). In February 2016, Barclays reached separate settlement agreements with the SEC 
and the NYAG to resolve those agencies' claims against Barclays PLC and BCI relating to the operation of LX and paid $35m to each.

Barclays PLC and BCI were named in a purported class action by an institutional financial services firm under California law based on allegations 
similar to those in the NYAG Complaint. In October 2016, the federal court in California granted the motion of Barclays PLC and BCI to dismiss 
the entire complaint. In July 2018, the court of appeals affirmed the dismissal.

Following the filing of the NYAG Complaint, Barclays PLC and BCI were also named in a putative shareholder securities class action along with 
certain current and former executives. The plaintiffs claim that holders of Barclays American Depository Receipts (ADRs) suffered damages 
when the ADRs declined in value as a result of the allegations in the NYAG Complaint. The parties have agreed to a settlement of this action 
for $27m, which is subject to final court approval.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
Barclays does not expect the financial impact of the actions described to be material to Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position.

Treasury auction securities civil actions and related matters
Various civil actions have been filed against Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other financial institutions alleging violations of antitrust and other laws 
relating to the markets for US Treasury securities and Supranational, Sovereign and Agency securities. Certain governmental authorities are also 
conducting investigations relating to trading of certain government and agency securities in various markets.

Numerous putative class action complaints have been filed in US Federal Court against Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other financial institutions that 
have served as primary dealers in US Treasury securities. Those actions have been consolidated and in 2017, plaintiffs in the putative class action 
filed a consolidated amended complaint in the US Federal Court in New York against the defendants as well as certain corporations that operate 
electronic trading platforms on which US Treasury securities are traded. The complaint purports to assert claims under US federal antitrust laws 
and state common law based on allegations that the defendants (i) conspired to manipulate the US Treasury securities market and/or 
(ii) conspired to prevent the creation of certain platforms by boycotting or threatening to boycott such trading platforms. The defendants 
have filed a motion to dismiss.

In addition, certain plaintiffs have filed a related, direct action against BCI and certain other financial institutions that have served as primary 
dealers in US Treasury securities. This complaint alleges that defendants conspired to fix and manipulate the US Treasury securities market 
in violation of US federal antitrust laws, the CEA and state common law. 

Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, Barclays Services Limited, Barclays Capital Securities Limited and certain other financial institutions 
have been named as defendants in a civil antitrust complaint that alleges that the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix prices and 
restrain competition in the market for US dollar-denominated Supranational, Sovereign and Agency bonds (SSA Bonds) from 2009 through 2015. 
The defendants have moved to dismiss the action. In February 2019, indirect purchasers of SSA Bonds filed a separate but related complaint 
making similar allegations.

Certain governmental authorities are conducting investigations into activities relating to the trading of certain government and agency securities 
in various markets and Barclays has been providing information to various authorities on an ongoing basis.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Mexican Government Bond civil action
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, Barclays Capital Securities Limited, Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A., Grupo Financiero Barclays Mexico, S.A. de 
C.V. and Banco Barclays S.A., together with other financial institutions that allegedly transacted in Mexican government bonds (MGB), are named 
as defendants in a class action consolidated in the SDNY. The plaintiffs assert antitrust and state law claims arising out of an alleged conspiracy 
to fix the prices of MGB from 2006 through mid-2017. Defendants have moved to dismiss the consolidated action.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

American Depositary Shares
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC were named as defendants in a securities class action consolidated in the SDNY that alleged misstatements 
and omissions in offering documents for certain American Depositary Shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC in April 2008 with an original 
face amount of approximately $2.5 billion (the April 2008 Offering). The plaintiffs asserted claims under the Securities Act of 1933, alleging 
misstatements and omissions concerning (amongst other things) Barclays Bank PLC's exposure to mortgage and credit market risk and its 
financial condition. In 2017, the SDNY granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment on all claims against them, a decision affirmed 
by the appellate court in November 2018.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact 
Absent the summary judgment decision being overturned on appeal, Barclays does not expect the financial impact of the action described 
to be material to Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 321

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued
BDC Finance L.L.C.
In 2008, BDC Finance L.L.C. (BDC) filed a complaint in the NY Supreme Court alleging that Barclays Bank PLC had breached a contract in 
connection with a portfolio of total return swaps governed by an ISDA Master Agreement (collectively, the Agreement) when it failed to transfer 
approximately $40m of alleged excess collateral in response to BDC's 2008 demand (Demand). 

BDC asserts that under the Agreement Barclays Bank PLC was not entitled to dispute the Demand before transferring the alleged excess collateral 
and that even if the Agreement entitled Barclays Bank PLC to dispute the Demand before making the transfer, Barclays Bank PLC failed to dispute 
the Demand. BDC demands damages totalling $298m plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. Following a trial on certain 
liability issues, the court ruled in December 2018 that Barclays Bank PLC was not a defaulting party. In January 2019, BDC filed a notice of appeal 
of that decision.

In 2011, BDC's investment advisor, BDCM Fund Adviser, L.L.C. and its parent company, Black Diamond Capital Holdings, L.L.C. also sued Barclays 
Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court for unspecified damages allegedly resulting from Barclays Bank PLC's conduct relating to the 
Agreement, asserting claims for violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act and tortious interference with business and prospective 
business relations. The Connecticut case is currently stayed.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might have 
upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period. BDC has made claims against Barclays totalling $298m 
plus attorneys' fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest. This amount does not necessarily reflect Barclays' potential financial exposure if 
a ruling were to be made against it.

Civil actions in respect of the US Anti-Terrorism Act
Civil complaints against Barclays Bank PLC and other banks allege engagement in a conspiracy and violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA). 
These include various civil complaints filed in the US Federal Courts in the EDNY and SDNY by separate groups of plaintiffs (aggregating over 
4,000) alleging that Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other banks engaged in a conspiracy and violated the ATA by facilitating US dollar 
denominated transactions for the Government of Iran and various Iranian banks, which in turn funded acts of terrorism that injured or killed 
the plaintiffs' family members. The plaintiffs seek to recover for pain, suffering and mental anguish pursuant to the provisions of the ATA, which 
allows for the tripling of any proven damages and attorneys' fees. In respect of a motion by defendants to dismiss one of the complaints, in July 
2018, a magistrate judge (to whom the court referred the motion) issued a recommendation that the motion be denied; the defendants objected 
to that recommendation; and the motion is pending before the court.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might 
have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Interest rate swap and credit default swap US civil actions
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, together with other financial institutions that act as market makers for interest rate swaps (IRS), Trade 
Web, and ICAP, are named as defendants in several antitrust class actions which were consolidated in the SDNY in 2016. The complaints allege the 
defendants conspired to prevent the development of exchanges for IRS and demand unspecified money damages, treble damages and legal fees. 
Plaintiffs include certain swap execution facilities, as well as buy-side investors. The buy-side investors claim to represent a class that transacted 
in fixed-for-floating IRS with defendants in the US from 2008 to the present, including, for example, US retirement and pension funds, 
municipalities, university endowments, corporations, insurance companies and investment funds. The case is in discovery. 

In 2017, a separate suit was filed in the US District Court in the SDNY against the same financial institution defendants in the IRS cases, including 
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, claiming that certain conduct alleged in the IRS cases also caused plaintiff to suffer harm with respect 
to the Credit Default Swaps market. The defendants have moved to dismiss this action. Separately, in June 2018, trueEX LLC filed an antitrust class 
action in the SDNY against 11 financial institutions that act as dealers in the IRS market, including Barclays Bank PLC and BCI, alleging that the 
defendants unlawfully conspired to block trueEX from successfully entering the market with its IRS trading platform. trueEX LLC also alleges that 
the defendants more generally boycotted other anonymous, all-to-all IRS trading platforms. In November 2018, the court dismissed certain claims 
for unjust enrichment and tortious interference, but denied a motion to dismiss the federal and state antitrust claims which remain pending.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact 
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might 
have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

Portuguese Competition Authority investigation 
The Portuguese Competition Authority is investigating whether competition law was infringed by the exchange of information about retail 
credit products amongst 15 banks in Portugal, including Barclays, over a period of 11 years with particular reference to mortgages, consumer 
lending and lending to small and medium enterprises. Barclays is cooperating with the investigation.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the matter described on Barclays or what effect it might 
have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

<Page End><Page Start>
322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities 
and legal proceedings
27 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued

2. Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC
Investigations relating to retail structured deposits and capital protected structured notes
In 2015, the FCA commenced an enforcement investigation relating to the design, manufacture and sale of structured deposits by Barclays from 
November 2009. In January 2018, the FCA also commenced an enforcement investigation relating to the design, manufacture and sale of capital 
protected structured notes by Barclays from June 2008 to July 2014. The FCA has now closed these investigations with no action to be taken 
against Barclays.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
There is no financial impact on Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position.

Investigation into collections and recoveries relating to unsecured lending
In February 2018, the FCA commenced an enforcement investigation in relation to whether or not Barclays implemented effective systems and 
controls with respect to collections and recoveries and whether or not it paid due consideration to the interests of customers in default and 
arrears.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the investigation on Barclays or what effect that it might have upon 
Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) assessments concerning UK Value Added Tax 
In 2018, HMRC issued notices that have the effect of removing certain overseas subsidiaries that have operations in the UK from Barclays' 
UK VAT group, in which group supplies between members are generally free from VAT. The notices have retrospective effect and correspond 
to assessments of £181m (inclusive of interest), of which Barclays would expect to attribute an amount of approximately £128m to Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and £53m to Barclays Bank PLC. Barclays has appealed HMRC's decision to the First Tier Tribunal (Tax Chamber).

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
The total amount of the HMRC assessments is approximately £181m, inclusive of interest.

Local authority civil actions concerning LIBOR
Following settlement by Barclays Bank PLC of various governmental investigations concerning certain benchmark interest rate submissions 
referred to above in ‘Investigations into LIBOR and other benchmarks', in the UK, certain local authorities have brought claims against Barclays 
asserting that they entered into loans in reliance on misrepresentations made by Barclays in respect of its conduct in relation to LIBOR.

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on Barclays or what effect they might 
have upon Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.

3. Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC
CCUK Finance Limited and CIAC Corporation 
In May 2017, Barclays was served with a civil claim by CCUK Finance Limited and CIAC Corporation issued in the English High Court alleging 
breach of a contractual indemnity, fraudulent misrepresentation and breach of warranty arising out of the sale of a portfolio of credit cards 
in 2007. The parties have settled the claim. 

Claimed amounts/Financial impact
The financial impact of the action described was not material to Barclays' operating results, cash flows or financial position.

General
Barclays is engaged in various other legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK, the US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions. 
It is subject to legal proceedings brought by and against Barclays which arise in the ordinary course of business from time to time, including 
(but not limited to) disputes in relation to contracts, securities, debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, competition, data 
management and protection, money laundering, financial crime, employment, environmental and other statutory and common law issues.

Barclays is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and other proceedings by 
regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with (but not limited to) consumer protection measures, compliance with 
legislation and regulation, wholesale trading activity and other areas of banking and business activities in which Barclays is or has been engaged. 
Barclays is cooperating with the relevant authorities and keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these matters and 
others described in this note on an ongoing basis.

At the present time, Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these other matters to have a material adverse effect on its 
financial position. However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters and the matters specifically described in this note, there can be no 
assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters (including formerly active matters or those matters arising after the date of this note) 
will not be material to Barclays' results, operations or cash flow for a particular period, depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the 
loss resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of profit otherwise reported for the reporting period.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 323

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Capital instruments, equity and reserves
Notes to the financial statements

The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Group's loan capital and shareholders' equity including issued share capital, retained 
earnings, other equity balances and interests of minority shareholders in our subsidiary entities (non-controlling interests). For more information 
on capital management and how the Barclays Group maintains sufficient capital to meet our regulatory requirements refer to page 141.

28 Subordinated liabilities

Accounting for subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method under IFRS 9.

2018
£m

2017
£m

Opening balance as at 1 January 23,826 23,383
Issuances 221 3,041
Redemptions (3,246) (1,378)
Other (242) (1,220)
Total subordinated liabilities 20,559 23,826

Redemptions totalling £3,246m include £500m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes, €1,750m 6% Fixed Rate Subordinated 
Notes (£1,532m), $1,000m 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes (£713m), $99m 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes (£72m), €40m Floating Rate 
Subordinated Notes 2018 (£35m), €235m CMS Linked Subordinated Notes (£206m), £140m 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes and a number 
of small redemptions by Barclays Securities Japan Limited totalling £48m.

Other movements include £514m due to the appreciation of USD and JPY against GBP offset by the reclassification of subordinated liabilities 
to non-controlling interests of £491m and accrued interest of £128m.

Subordinated liabilities include accrued interest and comprise undated and dated subordinated liabilities as follows:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Undated subordinated liabilities 3,522 4,191
Dated subordinated liabilities 17,037 19,635
Total subordinated liabilities 20,559 23,826

None of the Barclays Group's subordinated liabilities are secured.

Undated subordinated liabilities

Initial call date
2018

£m
2017

£m
Barclays Bank PLC issued
Tier One Notes (TONs)
6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes 2032 16 16
6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes (USD 179m) 2032 199 197
Reserve Capital Instruments (RCIs)
6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 34 36
14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 3,189 3,142
5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2036 51 52
Undated Notes
7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes (USD 99m) 2018 – 74
8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes 2018 – 144
7.125% Undated Subordinated Notesa 2020 – 182
6.125% Undated Subordinated Notesa 2027 – 43
Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes (USD 38m) Any interest payment date 30 28
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3a Any interest payment date – 21
Bonds
9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc)a 2021 – 87
9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bondsa At any time – 45
Loans
5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 8,000m)a 2028 – 51
5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (JPY 12,000m)a 2028 – 73
Total undated subordinated liabilities 3,522 4,191

Note
a Following a review, these instruments are deemed to have characteristics that would qualify them as equity rather than subordinated liabilities. They have been subsequently 

reclassified in December 2018 resulting in a £491m movement.

<Page End><Page Start>
324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

28 Subordinated liabilities continued
Undated subordinated liabilities
Undated subordinated liabilities are issued by Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiaries for the development and expansion of the business 
and to strengthen the capital bases. The principal terms of the undated subordinated liabilities are described below:

Subordination
All undated subordinated liabilities rank behind the claims against the bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and 
holders of dated subordinated liabilities in the following order: Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes; other issues of Undated Notes, Bonds and 
Loans ranking pari passu with each other; followed by TONs and RCIs ranking pari passu with each other.

Interest
All undated subordinated liabilities bear a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date, with the exception of the 9% Bonds which are fixed for 
the life of the issue, and the Junior and Series 3 Undated Notes which are floating rate at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the related 
interbank rate.

After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds will bear interest at 
rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates. All other undated subordinated liabilities will bear interest at rates 
fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.

Payment of interest
Barclays Bank PLC is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans excluding the 9.25% Bonds if, in the 
preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference 
shares of Barclays Bank PLC. Barclays Bank PLC is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the 
immediately preceding 12 month interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital. Interest not so paid becomes 
payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances. During the year, Barclays Bank PLC declared and 
paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.

No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless Barclays Bank PLC satisfies a specified solvency test.

Barclays Bank PLC may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs. Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of: 
(i) the date of redemption of the RCIs, (ii) the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such 
payment, and (iii) in respect of the 14% RCIs only, substitution. While such deferral is continuing, neither Barclays Bank PLC nor Barclays PLC 
may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.

Barclays Bank PLC may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, 
in non-compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the PRA. Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on 
a redemption of the TONs. Until such time as Barclays Bank PLC next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither Barclays Bank PLC nor 
Barclays PLC may (i) declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or preference shares, or 
make payments of interest in respect of Barclays Bank PLC's Reserve Capital Instruments and (ii) certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase 
or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.

Repayment
All undated subordinated liabilities are repayable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, generally in whole, at the initial call date and on any 
subsequent coupon or interest payment date or in the case of the 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds on any fifth anniversary 
after the initial call date. In addition, each issue of undated subordinated liabilities is repayable, at the option of Barclays Bank PLC in whole for 
certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date. There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or 
mandatory interest. Any repayments require the prior approval of the PRA.

Other
All issues of undated subordinated liabilities are non-convertible.

Capital instruments, equity and reserves

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 325

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

28 Subordinated liabilities continued
Dated subordinated liabilities

Initial 
call date

Maturity 
date

2018
£m

2017
£m

Barclays PLC issued
2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (EUR 1,250m) 2020 2025 1,130 1,119
2% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (EUR 1,500m) 2023 2028 1,367 1,325
4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,250m) 2024 982 947
3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes (SGD 200m) 2025 2030 116 111
5.20% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 2,050m) 2026 1,509 1,439
4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 2,000m) 2027 2028 1,523 1,471
Barclays Bank PLC issued
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 40m) 2018 – 36
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,750m) 2018 – 1,643
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 100m) 2018 – 93
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes (EUR 135m) 2018 – 124
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 2023 – 533
7.75% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 1,000m) 2018 2023 – 747
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 50m) 2019 45 44
5.14% Lower Tier 2 Notes (USD 1,094m) 2020 851 841
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,500m) 2021 1,474 1,484
9.5% Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich Plc) 2021 256 273
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 100m) 2021 89 88
10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 2,194 2,261
10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,521m) 2021 1,143 1,118
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2022 45 44
6.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (EUR 1,000m) 2022 1,032 1,043
7.625% Contingent Capital Notes (USD 3,000m) 2022 2,272 2,163
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 50m) 2023 45 44
5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 351 366
5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan (JPY 15,000m) 2027 107 97
6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 61 62
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes (EUR 68m) 2040 61 60
External issuances by other subsidiaries 2019–2023 384 59
Total dated subordinated liabilities 17,037 19,635

Dated subordinated liabilities
Dated subordinated liabilities are issued by Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and respective subsidiaries for the development and expansion 
of their business and to strengthen their respective capital bases. The principal terms of the dated subordinated liabilities are described below:

Subordination
Dated subordinated liabilities issued by Barclays PLC ranks behind the claims against Barclays PLC of unsecured unsubordinated creditors 
but before the claims of the holders of its equity.

All dated subordinated liabilities externally issued by Barclays Bank PLC rank behind the claims against the bank of depositors and other unsecured 
unsubordinated creditors but before the claims of the undated subordinated liabilities and the holders of its equity. The dated subordinated 
liabilities externally issued by other subsidiaries are similarly subordinated as the external subordinated liabilities issued by Barclays Bank PLC. 

Interest
Interest on the Floating Rate Notes is fixed periodically in advance, based on the related interbank or local central bank rates. 

Interest on the 2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes, 4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes, 2% Fixed Rate Subordinated 
Callable Notes and the 3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes are fixed until the call date. After the respective call dates, 
in the event that they are not redeemed, the interest rates will be reset and fixed until maturity based on a market rate.

Repayment
Those subordinated liabilities with a call date are repayable at the option of the issuer, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, 
some in whole or in part, and some only in whole. The remaining dated subordinated liabilities outstanding at 31 December 2018 are redeemable 
only on maturity, subject in particular cases to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law, or to certain 
changes in legislation or regulations. 

Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, the prior approval of the PRA, or in the case 
of the overseas issues, the approval of the local regulator for that jurisdiction and of the PRA in certain circumstances.

There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.

Other
The 7.625% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically transferred from investors to Barclays PLC (or another entity within the Barclays Group) 
for nil consideration in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls below 7%.

<Page End><Page Start>
326 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Capital instruments, equity and reserves

29 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid

Number of 
shares

m

Ordinary 
share 

capital
£m

Ordinary 
share 

premium
£m

Total share 
capital and 

share 
premium 

£m

Other
equity

instruments
£m

As at 1 January 2018 17,060 4,265 17,780 22,045 8,941
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 30 7 44 51 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 43 11 77 88 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 1,925
AT1 securities redemption – – – – (1,233)
Capital reorganisation – – (17,873) (17,873) –
Other movements – – – – (1)
As at 31 December 2018 17,133 4,283 28 4,311 9,632

As at 1 January 2017 16,963 4,241 17,601 21,842 6,449
Issued to staff under share incentive plans 46 12 74 86 –
Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 51 12 105 117 –
AT1 securities issuance – – – – 2,490
Other movements – – – – 2
As at 31 December 2017 17,060 4,265 17,780 22,045 8,941

Called up share capital
Called up share capital comprises 17,133m (2017: 17,060m) ordinary shares of 25p each.  

Share repurchase
At the 2018 AGM on 1 May 2018, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase up to an aggregate of 1,706m of its ordinary shares of 25p. 
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2019 or the close of business on 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier. No share repurchases 
were made during either 2018 or 2017. 

Capital reorganisation
On 11 September 2018, the High Court of Justice in England and Wales confirmed the cancellation of the share premium account of Barclays PLC, 
with the balance of £17,873m credited to retained earnings.

Other equity instruments
Other equity instruments of £9,632m (2017: £8,941m) include AT1 securities issued by Barclays PLC. The AT1 securities are perpetual securities 
with no fixed maturity and are structured to qualify as AT1 instruments under CRD IV. 

In 2018, there was one issuance of Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (2017: two issuances), with 
principal amount totalling $2.5bn (2017: £2.5bn). There was also one redemption in 2018 (2017: none), with principal amount totalling $2bn.

AT1 equity instruments
Initial 

call date
2018

£m
2017

£m
AT1 equity instruments – Barclays PLC
8.25% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (USD 2,000m) 2018 – 1,233
7.0% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2019 695 695
6.625% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (USD 1,211m) 2019 711 711
6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (EUR 1,077m) 2019 856 856
8.0% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (EUR 1,000m) 2020 830 830
7.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2022 995 995
7.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (USD 1,500m) 2022 1,131 1,131
7.25% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2023 1,245 1,245
7.75% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities (USD 2,500m) 2023 1,925 –
5.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2024 1,244 1,245
Total AT1 equity instruments 9,632 8,941

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 327

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

29 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued
The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below:
■■ AT1 securities rank behind the claims against Barclays PLC of 1) unsubordinated creditors; 2) claims which are expressed to be subordinated to 

the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Barclays PLC but not further or otherwise; or 3) claims which are, or are expressed to be, junior to the 
claims of other creditors of Barclays PLC, whether subordinated or unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, pari 
passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the AT1 securities.

■■ AT1 securities bear a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date. After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the AT1 
securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates.

■■ Interest on the AT1 securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of Barclays PLC, and Barclays PLC has sole and absolute 
discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel (in whole or in part) any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest 
payment date.

■■ AT1 securities are undated and are redeemable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole but not in part at the initial call date, or on any fifth 
anniversary after the initial call date. In addition, the AT1 securities are redeemable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole in the event of 
certain changes in the tax or regulatory treatment of the securities. Any redemptions require the prior consent of the PRA.

All AT1 securities will be converted into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, at a pre-determined price, should the fully loaded CET1 ratio of the 
Barclays Group fall below 7%.

30 Reserves 
Currency translation reserve 
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Barclays Group's net investment 
in foreign operations, net of the effects of hedging.

Available for sale reserve
Following the adoption of IFRS 9, accumulated fair value changes of £228m previously recognised in the available for sale reserve are now 
recorded in fair value through other comprehensive income.

Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve 
The fair value through other comprehensive income reserve represents the changes in the fair value of fair value through other comprehensive 
income investments since initial recognition.

Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled 
to profit or loss when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.

Own credit reserve
The own credit reserve reflects the cumulative own credit gains and losses on financial liabilities at fair value. Amounts in the own credit reserve 
are not recycled to profit or loss in future periods.

Other reserves and treasury shares
Other reserves relate to redeemed ordinary and preference shares issued by the Barclays Group. 

Treasury shares relate to Barclays PLC shares held in relation to the Barclays Group's various share schemes. These schemes are described 
in Note 32. Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders' equity within other reserves. A transfer is made to retained earnings in line with 
the vesting of treasury shares held for the purposes of share-based payments.

2018
£m

2017
£m

Currency translation reserve 3,888 3,054
Available for sale reserve – 364
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (258) –
Cash flow hedging reserve 660 1,161
Own credit reserve (121) (179)
Other reserves and treasury shares 984 983
Total 5,153 5,383

<Page End><Page Start>
328 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Capital instruments, equity and reserves

31 Non-controlling interests
Profit attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Equity attributable to 

non-controlling interest
Dividends paid to 

non-controlling interest
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
Barclays Bank PLC issued:
– Preference shares 204 242 529 1,838 204 242
– Upper Tier 2 instruments 22 3 691 272 22 –
Barclays Africa Group Limited – 140 – – – 173
Other non-controlling interests – 4 3 1 – –
Total 226 389 1,223 2,111 226 415

Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays PLC holds 100% of the voting rights of Barclays Bank PLC. As at 31 December 2018, Barclays Bank PLC has in issue preference shares 
and Upper Tier 2 instruments. In December 2018, Barclays Bank PLC redeemed its 8.125% USD Preference Shares in full. Preference share 
dividends and redemption are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC. The payment of Upper Tier 2 instrument coupons and principal 
are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC, except for coupon payments that become compulsory where Barclays PLC has declared or 
paid a dividend on ordinary shares in the preceding six-month period. Preference share and Upper Tier 2 instrument holders typically only have 
rights to redeem in the event of insolvency.

Following a review of subordinated liabilities issued by Barclays Bank PLC, certain instruments have been deemed to have characteristics 
that would qualify them as equity and have subsequently been reclassified. These are accounted for as non-controlling interests.

Instrument
2018

£m
2017

£m
Preference Shares:
6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares 318 318
4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares 211 211
8.125% non-cumulative callable preference shares – 1,309
Total Barclays Bank PLC Preference Shares 529 1,838
Total 529 1,838

Upper Tier 2 Instruments:
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 1 93 93
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 2 179 179
5.03% Undated Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Note (JPY8bn) 39 –
5.0% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated (JPY12bn) 53 –
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 (£145m) 20 –
9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds (£100m) 40 –
7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes (£525m) 158 –
6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes (£550m) 34 –
9.25% Perpetual Sub Notes (ex Woolwich) (£150m) 75 –
Total Upper Tier 2 Instruments 691 272

Protective rights of non-controlling interests
Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays Bank PLC also has in issue preference shares, which are non-controlling interests to the Barclays Group. Under the terms of these 
instruments, Barclays PLC may not pay dividends on ordinary shares until a dividend is next paid on these instruments or the instruments are 
redeemed or purchased by Barclays Bank PLC. There are no restrictions on Barclays Bank PLC's ability to remit capital to the Parent as a result 
of these issued instruments.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 329

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Employee benefits
Notes to the financial statements

32 Share-based payments  

Accounting for share-based payments
The Barclays Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in accounting for employee remuneration in the form of shares. 

Employee incentives include awards in the form of shares and share options, as well as offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares 
on favourable terms. The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in the income 
statement over the period that employees provide services. The overall cost of the award is calculated using the number of shares and options 
expected to vest and the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant. 

The number of shares and options expected to vest takes into account the likelihood that performance and service conditions included 
in the terms of the awards will be met. Failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in an acceleration 
of recognition of the cost of the employee services.

The fair value of shares is the market price ruling on the grant date, in some cases adjusted to reflect restrictions on transferability. The fair 
value of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate the numbers of shares likely to vest. These take into account 
the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the 
option and other relevant factors. Market conditions that must be met in order for the award to vest are also reflected in the fair value of the 
award, as are any other non-vesting conditions – such as continuing to make payments into a share-based savings scheme. 

The charge for the year arising from share-based payment schemes was as follows:

Charge for the year
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Share Value Plan 45 153 473
Deferred Share Value Plan 217 166 –
Others 187 186 192
Total equity settled 449 505 665
Cash settled 1 3 1
Total share-based payments 450 508 666

The terms of the main current plans are as follows:

Share Value Plan (SVP)
The SVP was introduced in March 2010 and approved by shareholders (for executive Director participation and use of new issue shares) 
at the AGM in April 2011. SVP awards are granted to participants in the form of a conditional right to receive Barclays PLC shares or provisional 
allocations of Barclays PLC shares which vest or are considered for release over a period of three, five or seven years. Participants do not pay 
to receive an award or to receive a release of shares. The grantor may also make a dividend equivalent payment to participants on release of 
a SVP award. SVP awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes. All awards are subject to potential forfeiture in certain 
leaver scenarios.

Deferred Share Value Plan (DSVP)
The DSVP was introduced in February 2017. The terms of the DSVP are materially the same as the terms of the SVP as described above, 
save that executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the DSVP and the DSVP operates over market purchase shares only.

Other schemes 
In addition to the SVP and DSVP, the Barclays Group operates a number of other schemes settled in Barclays PLC Shares including Sharesave 
(both UK and Ireland), Sharepurchase (both UK and overseas), and the Barclays Group Long Term Incentive Plan. A delivery of upfront shares 
to ‘Material Risk Takers' can be made as Share Incentive Award.

The notes included in this section focus on the costs and commitments associated with employing our staff.

<Page End><Page Start>
330 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Employee benefits

32 Share-based payments continued 
Share option and award plans
The weighted average fair value per award granted, weighted average share price at the date of exercise/release of shares during the year, 
weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options and awards outstanding (including those exercisable) at the balance 
sheet date are as follows:

2018 2017
Weighted 

average fair 
value per 

award 
granted 
in year

£

Weighted 
average 

share price 
at exercise/

release 
during year

£

Weighted
average

remaining
contractual

life
years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)

Weighted 
average fair 

value per 
award 

granted 
in year

£

Weighted 
average 

share price 
at exercise/

release 
during year

£

Weighted
average

remaining
contractual

life
years

Number of
options/

awards
outstanding

(000s)
SVPa,b 1.90 2.11 <1 67,898 2.30 2.29 1 191,610
DSVPa,b 1.94 2.10 1 206,571 2.26 2.06 1 125,399
Othersa 0.36-2.11 1.82-2.11 0-3 217,952 0.41-2.30 1.99-2.30 0-3 210,160

SVP and DSVP are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant. Consequently, the fair 
value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.

Movements in options and awards
The movement in the number of options and awards for the major schemes and the weighted average exercise price of options was:

SVPa,b DSVPa,b Othersa,c

Number (000s) Number (000s) Number (000s)
Weighted average 

ex. price (£)
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017

Outstanding at beginning of  
year/acquisition date 191,610 406,016 125,399 – 210,160 205,129 1.41 1.38
Granted in the year 1,425 943 135,964 132,316 114,335 118,222 1.51 1.66
Exercised/released in the year (119,688) (200,350) (43,402) (2,275) (78,771) (90,324) 1.50 1.52
Less: forfeited in the year (5,449) (14,999) (11,390) (4,642) (25,494) (17,733) 1.54 1.42
Less: expired in the year – – – – (2,278) (5,134) 1.80 2.03
Outstanding at end of year 67,898 191,610 206,571 125,399 217,952 210,160 1.41 1.41
Of which exercisable: – 18 – – 23,556 24,569 1.96 1.59

Notes
a Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares. 
b Nil cost award and therefore the weighted average exercise price was nil.
c The number of awards within Others at the end of the year principally relates to Sharesave (number of awards exercisable at end of year was 8,159,542). The weighted average 

exercise price relates to Sharesave.

Certain of the Barclays Group's share option plans enable certain Directors and employees to subscribe for new ordinary shares of Barclays PLC. 
For the accounting of treasury shares refer to Note 32.

There were no significant modifications to the share-based payments arrangements in 2018 and 2017.

As at 31 December 2018, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payments transactions was £2m (2017: £2m).

Holdings of Barclays PLC shares
Various employee benefit trusts established by the Barclays Group hold shares in Barclays PLC to meet obligations under the Barclays share-based 
payment schemes.  The total number of Barclays PLC shares held in these employee benefit trusts at 31 December 2018 was 11.4 million 
(2017: 9.9 million).  Dividend rights have been waived on all these shares. The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the 
year end share price of £1.51 (2017: £2.03) was £17.2m (2017: £20.1m). 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 331

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

33 Pensions and post-retirement benefits

Accounting for pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Barclays Group operates a number of pension schemes and post-employment benefit schemes.

Defined contribution schemes – the Barclays Group recognises contributions due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement. 
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.

Defined benefit schemes – the Barclays Group recognises its obligations to members of each scheme at the period end, less the fair value 
of the scheme assets after applying the asset ceiling test. 

Each scheme's obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are stated at fair value as at the period end.

Changes in pension scheme liabilities or assets (remeasurements) that do not arise from regular pension cost, net interest on net defined 
benefit liabilities or assets, past service costs, settlements or contributions to the scheme, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Remeasurements comprise experience adjustments (differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred), 
the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, return on scheme assets (excluding amounts included in the interest on the assets) and any 
changes in the effect of the asset ceiling restriction (excluding amounts included in the interest on the restriction).

Post-employment benefit schemes – the cost of providing healthcare benefits to retired employees is accrued as a liability in the financial 
statements over the period that the employees provide services to the Barclays Group, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit 
pension schemes.

Pension schemes
UK Retirement Fund (UKRF)
The UKRF is the Barclays Group's main scheme, representing 97% of the Barclays Group's total retirement benefit obligations. Barclays Bank PLC 
is the principal employer of the UKRF. The UKRF was closed to new entrants on 1 October 2012, and comprises 10 sections, the two most 
significant of which are: 
■■ Afterwork, which comprises a contributory cash balance defined benefit element, and a voluntary defined contribution element. The cash 

balance element is accrued each year and revalued until Normal Retirement Age in line with the increase in Retail Price Index (RPI) (up to 
a maximum of 5% p.a.). An increase of up to 2% a year may also be added at Barclays' discretion. Between 1 October 2003 and 1 October 2012 
the majority of new UK employees (except for the employees of the investment banking business within Barclays International) were eligible to 
join this section. The costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits for Afterwork members are borne by the UKRF. The main risks 
that Barclays runs in relation to Afterwork are limited although additional contributions are required if pre-retirement investment returns are not 
sufficient to provide for the benefits.

■■ The 1964 Pension Scheme. Most employees recruited before July 1997 built up benefits in this non-contributory defined benefit scheme in 
respect of service up to 31 March 2010. Pensions were calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary. From 1 April 2010, members 
became eligible to accrue future service benefits in either Afterwork or the Pension Investment Plan (PIP), a historic defined contribution 
section which is now closed to future contributions. The risks that Barclays runs in relation to the 1964 section are typical of final salary 
pension schemes, principally that investment returns fall short of expectations, that inflation exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer 
than expected.

Barclays Pension Savings Plan (BPSP)
From 1 October 2012, a new UK pension scheme, the BPSP, was established to satisfy Auto Enrolment legislation. The BPSP is a defined 
contribution scheme (Group Personal Pension) providing benefits for all new UK hires from 1 October 2012, employees of the investment banking 
business within Barclays International who were in PIP as at 1 October 2012, and also all UK employees who were not members of a pension 
scheme at that date. As a defined contribution scheme, BPSP is not subject to the same investment return, inflation or life expectancy risks for 
Barclays that defined benefit schemes are. Members' benefits reflect contributions paid and the level of investment returns achieved.   

Other
Apart from the UKRF and the BPSP, Barclays operates a number of smaller pension and long-term employee benefits and post-retirement 
healthcare plans globally, the largest of which are the US defined benefit schemes. Many of the schemes are funded, with assets backing the 
obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts. Others are operated on an unfunded basis. The benefits provided, the approach to 
funding, and the legal basis of the schemes, reflect local environments.  

Governance
The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed 
and Rules and all relevant legislation. The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited, a private limited company and a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC. The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the assets of the 
Barclays Group.

The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship 
with Barclays (and who are not members of the UKRF), plus three Member Nominated Directors selected from eligible active staff and pensioner 
members who apply for the role.

The BPSP is a Group Personal Pension arrangement which operates as a collection of personal pension plans. Each personal pension plan 
is a direct contract between the employee and the BPSP provider (Legal & General Assurance Society Limited), and is regulated by the FCA.

Similar principles of pension governance apply to the Barclays Group's other pension schemes, depending on local legislation.

<Page End><Page Start>
332 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Employee benefits

33 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
Amounts recognised
The following tables include amounts recognised in the income statement and an analysis of benefit obligations and scheme assets for all Barclays 
Group defined benefit schemes. The net position is reconciled to the assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. The tables include 
funded and unfunded post-retirement benefits.  

Income statement charge
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Current service cost 243 265 243
Net finance cost (24) (12) (32)
Past service cost 134 (3) –
Other movements 5 – 2
Total 358 250 213

Balance sheet reconciliation 2018 2017

Total
£m

Of which 
relates to 

UKRF
£m

Total
£m

Of which 
relates to 

UKRF
£m

Benefit obligation at beginning of the year (30,268) (29,160) (33,033) (31,847)
Current service cost (243) (226) (265) (245)
Interest costs on scheme liabilities (705) (677) (843) (810)
Past service cost (134) (140) 3 –
Remeasurement loss – financial 1,129 1,075 (387) (330)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – demographic (241) (245) (228) (240)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – experience (75) (94) (612) (614)
Employee contributions (4) (1) (5) (1)
Benefits paid 2,205 2,167 4,970 4,927
Exchange and other movements 67 – 132 –
Benefit obligation at end of the year (28,269) (27,301) (30,268) (29,160)
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of the year 30,922 30,112 32,657 31,820
Interest income on scheme assets 729 709 855 831
Employer contribution 754 741 1,152 1,124
Remeasurement – return on scheme assets greater than discount rate (400) (360) 1,333 1,263
Employee contributions 4 1 5 1
Benefits paid (2,205) (2,167) (4,970) (4,927)
Exchange and other movements (82) – (110) –
Fair value of scheme assets at end of the year 29,722 29,036 30,922 30,112
Net surplus 1,453 1,735 654 952
Retirement benefit assets 1,768 1,735 966 952
Retirement benefit liabilities (315) – (312) –
Net retirement benefit assets 1,453 1,735 654 952

Included within the benefit obligation was £757m (2017: £895m) relating to overseas pensions and £204m (2017: £213m) relating to other 
post-employment benefits. 

As at 31 December 2018, the UKRF's scheme assets were in surplus versus IAS 19 obligations by £1,735m (2017: £952m). The movement for the 
UKRF was driven by an increase in the discount rate and payment of deficit contributions, offset by lower than assumed asset returns and revised 
early retirement and cash commutation factors.

The Group has considered all of the implications of the High Court ruling in the Lloyds Banking Group Pension Trustees case on the requirement 
to equalise pensions in respect of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (GMP). This resulted in a £140m increase in pension obligation which has been 
recognised as a Past service cost. Any future clarifications to GMP equalisation leading to a change in financial assumptions are expected to be 
recognised in equity.

Of the £2,167m (2017: £4,927m) UKRF benefits paid out, £1,420m (2017: £4,151m) related to transfers out of the fund.

Where a scheme's assets exceed its obligation, an asset is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution 
holidays or refunds of contributions (the asset ceiling). In the case of the UKRF the asset ceiling is not applied as, in certain specified circumstances 
such as wind-up, the Barclays Group expects to be able to recover any surplus. The Trustee does not have a substantive right to augment benefits, 
nor do they have the right to wind up the plan except in the dissolution of the Barclays Group or termination of contributions by the Barclays 
Group. The application of the asset ceiling to other plans is considered on an individual plan basis.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 333

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

33 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Actuarial valuation of the schemes' obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions. Below is a summary of the main financial and 
demographic assumptions adopted for the UKRF.

Key UKRF financial assumptions
2018

% p.a.
2017

% p.a.

Discount rate 2.71 2.46
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.25 3.22

The UKRF discount rate assumption for 2018 was based on a variant of the standard Willis Towers Watson RATE Link model. This variant 
includes all bonds rated AA by at least one of the four major ratings agencies, and assumes that yields after year 30 are flat. The RPI inflation 
assumption for 2018 was set by reference to the Bank of England's implied inflation spot curve, assuming the spot curve remains flat after 
30 years. The inflation assumption incorporates a deduction of 20 basis points as an allowance for an inflation risk premium. The methodology 
used to derive the discount rate and price inflation assumptions is consistent with that used at the prior year end.

The UKRF's post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on a best estimate assumption derived from an analysis in 2016 of the Barclays 
Group own post-retirement mortality experience, and taking account of recent evidence from published mortality surveys.  An allowance has 
been made for future mortality improvements based on the 2017 core projection model published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation 
Bureau subject to a long-term trend of 1.25% per annum in future improvements. The methodology used is consistent with the prior year end, 
except that the 2016 core projection model was used at 2017. The table below shows how the assumed life expectancy at 60, for members of 
the UKRF, has varied over the past three years:

Assumed life expectancy 2018 2017 2016
Life expectancy at 60 for current pensioners (years)
– Males 27.7 27.8 27.9
– Females 29.4 29.4 29.7
Life expectancy at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 (years)
– Males 29.2 29.3 29.7
– Females 31.0 31.0 31.7

The assumption for future transfers out has been adjusted to reflect volumes experienced in 2018 which were lower than previously assumed. 
The revised assumption is that 7.5% of the benefit obligation in respect of deferred members will transfer out during 2019, 5% in 2020, 2.5% in 
2021, tapering down to 0% from 2022 onwards (2017:15% of the benefit obligation in respect of deferred members will transfer out during 2019, 
10% in 2020, 5% in 2021, tapering down to 0% from 2022 onwards).

Sensitivity analysis on actuarial assumptions
The sensitivity analysis has been calculated by valuing the UKRF liabilities using the amended assumptions shown in the table below and keeping 
the remaining assumptions the same as disclosed in the table above, except in the case of the inflation sensitivity where other assumptions that 
depend on assumed inflation have also been amended correspondingly. The difference between the recalculated liability figure and that stated 
in the balance sheet reconciliation table above is the figure shown. The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the defined 
benefit obligation to key assumptions should not be interpreted as Barclays expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements 
happening.

Change in key assumptions
2018 2017

(Decrease)/ 
Increase in 

UKRF 
defined 
benefit 

obligation
£bn

(Decrease)/ 
Increase in 

UKRF 
defined 
benefit 

obligation
£bn

Discount rate
0.5% p.a. increase (2.1) (2.4)
0.25% p.a. increase (1.1) (1.2)
0.25% p.a. decrease 1.1 1.3
0.5% p.a. decrease 2.4 2.8
Assumed RPI
0.5% p.a. increase 1.3 1.6
0.25% p.a. increase 0.7 0.8
0.25% p.a. decrease (0.6) (0.7)
0.5% p.a. decrease (1.3) (1.5)
Life expectancy at 60
One year increase 0.9 1.0
One year decrease (0.9) (1.0)

<Page End><Page Start>
334 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Employee benefits

33 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
The weighted average duration of the benefit payments reflected in the defined benefit obligation for the UKRF is 17 years. 

Assets
A long-term investment strategy has been set for the UKRF, with its asset allocation comprising a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other 
appropriate assets. This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be 
more volatile than others. The long-term investment strategy ensures, among other aims, that investments are adequately diversified. Asset 
managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term investment strategy within control ranges agreed with 
the Trustee from time to time.

The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely 
to liabilities. The value of assets shown reflects the assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a fair value basis. 

The value of the assets of the schemes and their percentage in relation to total scheme assets were as follows:

Analysis of scheme assets
Total Of which relates to UKRF

Value
£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%
Value

£m

% of total 
fair value of 

scheme 
assets

%
As at 31 December 2018
Equities – quoted  2,916 9.8 2,787 9.6
Equities – non-quoted  1,995 6.7 1,995 6.9
Bonds – fixed governmenta 4,099 13.8 3,840 13.2
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 11,960 40.2 11,951 41.1
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,653 19.0 5,479 18.9
Property – commercialb 1,712 5.8 1,702 5.9
Derivativesb 266 0.9 266 0.9
Otherc 1,121 3.8 1,016 3.5
Fair value of scheme assets 29,722 100.0 29,036 100.0

As at 31 December 2017
Equities – quoted  4,377 14.1 4,151 13.8
Equities – non-quoted  2,001 6.5 2,001 6.6
Bonds – fixed governmenta 2,433 7.9 2,184 7.3
Bonds – index-linked governmenta 13,089 42.3 13,078 43.4
Bonds – corporate and othera 5,195 16.8 4,999 16.6
Property – commercialb 1,911 6.2 1,902 6.3
Derivativesb 816 2.6 816 2.7
Otherc 1,100 3.6 981 3.3
Fair value of scheme assets 30,922 100.0 30,112 100.0

Notes
a Assets held are predominantly quoted.
b Assets held are predominantly non-quoted.
c Assets held are predominantly in Infrastructure Funds.

Included within the fair value of scheme assets were: nil (2017: £0.1m) relating to shares in Barclays PLC and nil (2017: £0.6m) relating 
to bonds issued by Barclays PLC. The UKRF also invests in pooled investment vehicles which may hold shares or debt issued by Barclays PLC.

The UKRF scheme assets also include £1m (2017: £15m) relating to UK private equity investments and £1,994m (2017: £1,986m) relating 
to overseas private equity investments. These are disclosed above within Equities – non-quoted.

Approximately 46% of the UKRF assets are invested in liability-driven investment strategies; primarily UK gilts as well as interest rate and inflation 
swaps. These are used to better match the assets to its liabilities. The swaps are used to reduce the scheme's inflation and duration risks against 
its liabilities.

Funding
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the UKRF funding position in addition to the full triennial actuarial valuation. The latest 
annual update was carried out as at 30 September 2018 and showed a deficit of £4.04bn and a funding level of 88.4%. 

The last triennial actuarial valuation of the UKRF had an effective date of 30 September 2016 and was completed in July 2017. This valuation 
showed a funding deficit of £7.87bn and a funding level of 81.5%.

The improvement in funding position between 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2018 was largely due to payment of deficit contributions, 
higher than assumed asset returns, higher Government bond yields, and transfers out of the scheme.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 335

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

33 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued
At the 2016 triennial actuarial valuation the Barclays Group and UKRF Trustee agreed a revised scheme-specific funding target, statement of 
funding principles, schedule of contributions, a recovery plan to seek to eliminate the deficit relative to the funding target and some additional 
support measures. The agreement with the UKRF Trustee also takes into account the changes to the Barclays Group structure that were 
implemented as a result of ring-fencing.

The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 assumptions were a different approach to setting the discount rate and a more conservative 
longevity assumption for funding. 

The deficit reduction contributions agreed with the UKRF Trustee as part of the 30 September 2016 valuation recovery plan are shown in the 
table below.

Year

Deficit 
contributions 

30 September 2016 
valuation

£m
2017 740
2018 500
2019 500
2020 500
2021 to 2026 1,000 each year

The deficit reduction contributions are in addition to the regular contributions to meet the Barclays Group's share of the cost of benefits 
accruing over each year. The next funding valuation of the UKRF is due to be completed in 2020 with an effective date of 30 September 2019.

Other support measures agreed at the same time as the valuation
Collateral – The UKRF Trustee and Barclays Bank PLC have entered into an arrangement whereby a collateral pool has been put in place to provide 
security for the UKRF funding deficit as it increases or decreases over time, and associated deficit recovery contributions. The collateral pool is 
currently made up of government securities. Agreement was made with the Trustee to increase the proportion of the deficit covered from 88.5% 
to 100% effective from 26 March 2018 with an overall cap remaining of £9bn, at which date the collateral pool consisted of government securities 
only (the Trustee and Barclays Bank PLC may agree alternative eligible collateral in the future). The arrangement provides the UKRF Trustee with 
dedicated access to the pool of assets in the event of Barclays Bank PLC not paying a deficit reduction contribution to the UKRF or in the event of 
Barclays Bank PLC's insolvency. These assets are included within Note 38.  

Support from Barclays PLC – In the event of Barclays Bank PLC not paying a deficit reduction contribution payment required under the 2016 
valuation recovery plan by a specified pre-payment date, Barclays PLC has entered into an arrangement whereby it will be required to use, in first 
priority, dividends received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (if any) to invest the proceeds in Barclays Bank PLC (up to the maximum amount of the 
deficit reduction contribution unpaid by Barclays Bank PLC). The proceeds of the investment will be used to discharge Barclays Bank PLC's unpaid 
deficit reduction contribution.

Participation – As permitted under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Banking Reform) (Pensions) Regulations 2015, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC is a participating employer in the UKRF and will remain so during a transitional phase until September 2025 as set out in a deed of participation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC will make contributions for the future service of its employees who are currently Afterwork members and, in the event of 
Barclays Bank PLC's insolvency during this period provision has been made to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to become the principal employer of 
the UKRF. Barclays Bank PLC's Section 75 debt would be triggered by the insolvency (the debt would be calculated after allowing for the payment 
to the UKRF of the collateral above).

Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows:

Contributions paid
£m

2018 741
2017 1,124
2016 634

There were nil (2017: £153m; 2016: £112m) Section 75 contributions included within the Barclays Group's contributions paid as no participating 
employers left the UKRF scheme in 2018.

The Barclays Group's expected contribution to the UKRF in respect of defined benefits in 2019 is £725m (2018: £716m). In addition, the expected 
contributions to UK defined contribution schemes in 2019 is £34m (2018: £35m) to the UKRF and £168m (2018: £146m) to the BPSP.

<Page End><Page Start>
336 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

34 Principal subsidiaries

The Barclays Group applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements 
of the Barclays Group and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Barclays Group has control. Under IFRS 10, this is when the 
Barclays Group is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power over the entity.

The Barclays Group reassesses whether it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there have been changes to its power, 
its rights to variable returns or its ability to use its power to affect the amount of its returns.

Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Barclays 
Group for the purposes of the consolidation. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they 
occur after control has been obtained and they do not result in loss of control.

The significant judgements used in applying this policy are set out below.

Accounting for investment in subsidiaries
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment.

Principal subsidiaries for the Barclays Group are set out below. This includes those subsidiaries that are most significant in the context 
of the Barclays Group's business, results or financial position.

Company name
Principal place of business 
or incorporation Nature of business

Percentage of 
voting rights held

%

Non-controlling 
interests – 

proportion of 
ownership 

interests
%

Non-controlling 
interests – 

proportion of 
voting 

interests
%

Barclays Bank PLC England Banking, holding Company 100 3 –
Barclays Bank UK PLC England Banking, holding Company 100 – –
Barclays Bank Ireland PLC Ireland Banking, holding Company 100 – –
Barclays Services Limited England Service Company 100 – –
Barclays Capital Inc. United States Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Capital Securities Limited England Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Securities Japan Limited Japan Securities dealing 100 – –
Barclays Bank Delaware United States Credit card issuer 100 – –

The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries. 

Ownership interests are in some cases different to voting interests due to the existence of non-voting equity interests, such as preference shares. 
Refer to Note 31 for more information. 

Determining whether the Barclays Group has control of an entity is generally straightforward based on ownership of the majority of the voting 
capital. However, in certain instances, this determination will involve judgement, particularly in the case of structured entities where voting rights 
are often not the determining factor in decisions over the relevant activities. This judgement will involve assessing the purpose and design of the 
entity. It will also often be necessary to consider whether the Barclays Group, or another involved party with power over the relevant activities, 
is acting as a principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others.  

There is also often considerable judgement involved in the ongoing assessment of control over structured entities. In this regard, where market 
conditions have deteriorated such that the other investors' exposures to the structure's variable returns have been substantively eliminated, the 
Barclays Group may conclude that the managers of the structured entity are acting as its agent and therefore will consolidate the structured entity. 

An interest in equity voting rights exceeding 50% would typically indicate that the Barclays Group has control of an entity. However, the entity 
set out below is excluded from consolidation because the Barclays Group does not have exposure to its variable returns. 

Country of registration or incorporation Company name

Percentage of 
voting rights held

%

Equity 
shareholders' 

funds
£m

Retained profit 
for the year

£m
Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 – –

This entity is managed by an external counterparty and consequently is not controlled by the Barclays Group. Interests relating to this entity are 
included in Note 35.

Scope of consolidation

The section presents information on the Barclays Group's investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and its interests in 
structured entities. Detail is also given on securitisation transactions the Barclays Group has entered into and arrangements that are held 
off-balance sheet.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 337

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

34 Principal subsidiaries continued
Significant restrictions
As is typical for a Group of its size and international scope, there are restrictions on the ability of Barclays PLC to obtain distributions of capital, 
access the assets or repay the liabilities of members of its Group due to the statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements of its subsidiaries 
and due to the protective rights of non-controlling interests. These are considered below.

Regulatory requirements
Barclays' principal subsidiary companies have assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations of £1,399bn (2017: £1,407bn) and £1,330bn 
(2017: £1,341bn) respectively. The assets and liabilities are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in the countries in 
which they are regulated. These require entities to maintain minimum capital levels which cannot be returned to the Parent company, Barclays PLC 
on a going concern basis. 

In order to meet capital requirements, subsidiaries may issue certain equity-accounted and debt-accounted financial instruments and non-equity 
instruments such as Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments and other forms of subordinated liabilities. Refer to Note 28 and Note 29 for particulars 
of these instruments. These instruments may be subject to cancellation clauses or preference share restrictions that would limit the ability of the 
entity to repatriate the capital on a timely basis.

Liquidity requirements
Regulated subsidiaries of the Barclays Group are required to meet applicable PRA or local regulatory requirements pertaining to liquidity. Some of 
the regulated subsidiaries include Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Barclays Bank Delaware. See pages 183 to196 
for further details of liquidity requirements, including those of the Barclays Group's significant subsidiaries.

Statutory requirements 
The Barclays Group's subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits and generally 
to maintain solvency. These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to make remittances of dividends to Barclays PLC, the ultimate 
parent, except in the event of a legal capital reduction or liquidation. In most cases, the regulatory restrictions referred to above exceed the 
statutory restrictions.

Contractual requirements
Asset encumbrance
The Barclays Group uses its financial assets to raise finance in the form of securitisations and through the liquidity schemes of central banks, 
as well as to provide security to the UK Retirement Fund. Once encumbered, the assets are not available for transfer around the Barclays Group. 
The assets typically affected are disclosed in Note 38.

Assets held by consolidated structured entities
None of the assets (2017: nil) included in the Barclays Group's balance sheet relate to consolidated investment funds, held to pay return and 
principal to the holders of units in the funds.

Other restrictions
The Barclays Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities, and these amounted to £4,717m 
(2017: £3,360m).  

35 Structured entities
A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are generally 
created to achieve a narrow and well-defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. 

Depending on the Barclays Group's power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, 
it may consolidate the entity. In other cases, it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it.

Consolidated structured entities
The Barclays Group has contractual arrangements which may require it to provide financial support to the following types of consolidated 
structured entities:

Securitisation vehicles
The Barclays Group uses securitisation as a source of financing and a means of risk transfer. Refer to Note 37 for further detail.

The Barclays Group, in previous periods, has provided liquidity facilities to certain securitisation vehicles. At 31 December 2018, there were no 
outstanding loan commitments to these entities (2017: nil).

Commercial paper (CP) and medium-term note conduits
The Barclays Group provided £11.7bn (2017: £10.2bn) in undrawn contractual backstop liquidity facilities to CP conduits.

Fund management entities
In previous periods, the Barclays Group had contractually guaranteed the performance of certain cash investments in a number of managed 
investment funds which resulted in their consolidation. As at 31 December 2018, the notional value of the guarantees were nil (2017: nil) as the 
European Wealth Funds associated with these guarantees were either closed or ownership has been transferred outside the Barclays Group and 
they are no longer consolidated.

<Page End><Page Start>
338 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Scope of consolidation

35 Structured entities continued
Employee benefit and other trusts
Barclays PLC provides capital contributions to employee benefit trusts to enable them to meet obligations to the employees of Barclays PLC in 
relation to the Barclays Group's share-based remuneration arrangements. During 2018, the Barclays Group provided undrawn liquidity facilities 
of £2.6bn (2017: £1.8bn) to certain trusts.

Unconsolidated structured entities in which the Barclays Group has an interest
An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual involvement which creates variability in returns arising from the 
performance of the entity for the Barclays Group. Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, derivatives that transfer financial 
risks from the entity to the Barclays Group, lending, loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management agreements.

Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives that are not complex and which expose the Barclays Group to insignificant credit risk by being 
senior in the payment waterfall of a securitisation and derivatives that are determined to introduce risk or variability to a structured entity are 
not considered to be an interest in an entity and have been excluded from the disclosures below.

The nature and extent of the Barclays Group's interests in structured entities is summarised below:

Summary of interests in unconsolidated structured entities

Secured 
financing

£m

Short-term 
traded 

interests
£m

Traded 
derivatives

£m

Other 
interests

£m
Total

£m
As at 31 December 2018
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 12,206 – – 12,206
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 32,359 – – 2,598 34,957
Derivative financial instruments – – 5,236 – 5,236
Loans and advances at amortised cost – – – 17,341 17,341
Other assets – – – 33 33
Total assets 32,359 12,206 5,236 19,972 69,773
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 6,438 2,586 9,024

As at 31 December 2017
Assets
Trading portfolio assets – 10,788 – 699 11,487
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 31,520 – – 2,721 34,241
Derivative financial instruments – – 4,380 – 4,380
Loans and advances at amortised cost 5,481 – – 17,386 22,867
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 753 – – – 753
Other assets – – – 509 509
Total assets 37,754 10,788 4,380 21,315 74,237
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – – 5,193 3,356 8,549

Secured financing arrangements, short-term traded interests and traded derivatives are typically managed under market risk management policies 
described on page 139 which includes an indication of the change of risk measures compared to last year. For this reason, the total assets of these 
entities are not considered meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented. Other interests include 
conduits and lending where the interest is driven by normal customer demand.

Secured financing 
The Barclays Group routinely enters into reverse repurchase contracts, stock borrowing and similar arrangements on normal commercial terms 
where the counterparty to the arrangement is a structured entity. Due to the nature of these arrangements, especially the transfer of collateral 
and ongoing margining, the Barclays Group has minimal exposure to the performance of the structured entity counterparty. This includes margin 
lending which is presented under financial assets at fair value through the income statement to align to the balance sheet presentation. 

Short-term traded interests
The Barclays Group buys and sells interests in structured entities as part of its trading activities, for example, retail mortgage-backed securities, 
collateralised debt obligations and similar interests. Such interests are typically held individually or as part of a larger portfolio for no more than 
90 days. In such cases, the Barclays Group typically has no other involvement with the structured entity other than the securities it holds as part 
of trading activities and its maximum exposure to loss is restricted to the carrying value of the asset.

As at 31 December 2018, £8,436m (2017: £9,645m) of the Barclays Group's £12,206m (2017: £10,788m) short-term traded interests were 
comprised of debt securities issued by asset securitisation vehicles.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 339

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

35 Structured entities continued
Traded derivatives
The Barclays Group enters into a variety of derivative contracts with structured entities which reference market risk variables such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates and credit indices among other things. The main derivative types which are considered interests in structured 
entities include index-based and entity specific credit default swaps, balance guaranteed swaps, total return swaps, commodities swaps, and 
equity swaps. A description of the types of derivatives and the risk management practices are detailed in Note 14. The risk of loss may be 
mitigated through ongoing margining requirements as well as a right to cash flows from the structured entity which are senior in the payment 
waterfall. Such margining requirements are consistent with market practice for many derivative arrangements and in line with the Barclays Group's 
normal credit policies.

Derivative transactions require the counterparty to provide cash or other collateral under margining agreements to mitigate counterparty credit 
risk. The Barclays Group is mainly exposed to settlement risk on these derivatives which is mitigated through daily margining. Total notionals 
amounted to £1,477,753m (2017: £1,680,615m).

Except for credit default swaps where the maximum exposure to loss is the swap notional amount, it is not possible to estimate the maximum 
exposure to loss in respect of derivative positions as the fair value of derivatives is subject to changes in market rates of interest, exchange rates 
and credit indices which by their nature are uncertain. In addition, the Barclays Group's losses would be subject to mitigating action under its 
traded market risk and credit risk policies that require the counterparty to provide collateral in cash or other assets in most cases.

Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities
The Barclays Group's interests in structured entities not held for the purposes of short-term trading activities are set out below, summarised 
by the purpose of the entities and limited to significant categories, based on maximum exposure to loss.

Nature of interest
Multi-seller 

conduit 
programmes

£m
Lending

£m

Investment 
funds and 

trusts
£m

Others
£m

Total
£m

As at 31 December 2018
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
– Debt securities 444 –   –   114 558
– Loans and advances –   –   –   2,040 2,040
Loans and advances at amortised cost 6,100 9,140 –   2,101 17,341
Other assets 9 3 21 –   33
Total on-balance sheet exposures 6,553 9,143 21 4,255 19,972
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 11,671 4,327 –   431 16,429
Maximum exposure to loss 18,224 13,470 21 4,686 36,401
Total assets of the entity 73,109 196,865 9,341 28,163 307,478

As at 31 December 2017
Trading portfolio assets
– Debt securities –   –   –   699 699
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
– Loans and advances –   –   –   2,721 2,721
Loans and advances at amortised cost 5,424 11,497 –   465 17,386
Other assets 468 11 8 22 509
Total on-balance sheet exposures 5,892 11,508 8 3,907 21,315
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 6,270 6,337 –   446 13,053
Maximum exposure to loss 12,162 17,845 8 4,353 34,368
Total assets of the entity 103,057 179,994 11,137 22,669 316,857

Maximum exposure to loss
Unless specified otherwise below, the Barclays Group's maximum exposure to loss is the total of its on-balance sheet positions and its off-balance 
sheet arrangements, being loan commitments and financial guarantees. Exposure to loss is mitigated through collateral, financial guarantees, 
the availability of netting and credit protection held.

Multi-seller conduit programme
The multi-seller conduit engages in providing financing to various clients and holds whole or partial interests in pools of receivables or similar 
obligations. These instruments are protected from loss through overcollateralisation, seller guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided 
to the conduit. The Barclays Group's off-balance sheet exposure included in the table above represents liquidity facilities that are provided to the 
conduit for the benefit of the holders of the commercial paper issued by the conduit and will only be drawn where the conduit is unable to access 
the commercial paper market. If these liquidity facilities are drawn, the Barclays Group is protected from loss through overcollateralisation, seller 
guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided to the conduit.

 

<Page End><Page Start>
340 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Scope of consolidation

35 Structured entities continued
Lending
The portfolio includes lending provided by the Barclays Group to unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of its lending business 
to earn income in the form of interest and lending fees and includes loans to structured entities that are generally collateralised by property, 
equipment or other assets. All loans are subject to the Barclays Group's credit sanctioning process. Collateral arrangements are specific to the 
circumstances of each loan with additional guarantees and collateral sought from the sponsor of the structured entity for certain arrangements. 
During the period the Barclays Group incurred an impairment of £67m (2017: £11m) against such facilities.

Investment funds and trusts 
In the course of its fund management activities, the Barclays Group establishes pooled investment funds that comprise investments of various 
kinds, tailored to meet certain investors' requirements. The Barclays Group's interest in funds is generally restricted to a fund management fee, 
the value of which is typically based on the performance of the fund.

The Barclays Group acts as trustee to a number of trusts established by or on behalf of its clients. The purpose of the trusts, which meet the 
definition of structured entities, is to hold assets on behalf of beneficiaries. The Barclays Group's interest in trusts is generally restricted to unpaid 
fees which, depending on the trust, may be fixed or based on the value of the trust assets.  The Barclays Group has no other risk exposure to 
the trusts.

Other
This includes fair value loans with structured entities where the market risk is materially hedged with corresponding derivative contracts, 
interests in debt securities issued by securitisation vehicles and drawn and undrawn loan facilities to these entities.

Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities
Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities were immaterial.

36 Investments in associates and joint ventures

Accounting for associates and joint ventures
The Barclays Group applies IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. Associates are entities in which the Barclays 
Group has significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies. Generally the Barclays Group holds more than 20%, 
but less than 50%, of their voting shares. Joint ventures are arrangements where the Barclays Group has joint control and rights to the net 
assets of the entity. 

The Barclays Group's investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased (or decreased) each year by the 
Barclays Group's share of the post acquisition profit/(loss). The Barclays Group ceases to recognise its share of the losses of equity accounted 
associates when its share of the net assets and amounts due from the entity have been written off in full, unless it has a contractual or 
constructive obligation to make good its share of the losses. In some cases, investments in these entities may be held at fair value through 
profit or loss, for example, those held by private equity businesses. 

There are no individually significant investments in joint ventures or associates held by the Barclays Group.  

2018 2017
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m
Associates

£m
Joint ventures

£m
Total

£m
Equity accounted 481 281 762 402 316 718
Held at fair value through profit or loss – 509 509 – 447 447
Total 481 790 1,271 402 763 1,165

Summarised financial information for the Barclays Group's equity accounted associates and joint ventures is set out below. The amounts shown 
are the net income of the investees, not just the Barclays Group's share for the year ended 31 December 2018, with the exception of certain 
undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.

Associates Joint ventures
2018

£m
2017

£m
2018

£m
2017

£m
Profit from continuing operations 173 117 54 77
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 28 – 32 (15)
Total comprehensive income from continuing operations 201 117 86 62

Unrecognised shares of the losses of individually immaterial associates and joint ventures were nil (2017: nil).

The Barclays Group's associates and joint ventures are subject to statutory or contractual requirements such that they cannot make remittances 
of dividends or make loan repayments to Barclays PLC without agreement from the external parties.  

The Barclays Group's share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures comprised unutilised credit facilities provided 
to customers of £1,715m (2017: £1,712m). In addition, the Barclays Group has made commitments to finance or otherwise provide resources 
to its joint ventures and associates of £318m (2017: £304m).

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 341

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

37 Securitisations

Accounting for securitisations
The Barclays Group uses securitisations as a source of finance and a means of risk transfer. Such transactions generally result in the transfer 
of contractual cash flows from portfolios of financial assets to holders of issued debt securities.

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of 
the debt securities issued in the transaction; lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Barclays Group's continuing 
involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations 
created or retained in the transfer. Full derecognition only occurs when the Barclays Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash 
flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including 
credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.

In the course of its normal banking activities, the Barclays Group makes transfers of financial assets, either where legal rights to the cash 
flows from the asset are passed to the counterparty or beneficially, where the Barclays Group retains the rights to the cash flows but assumes 
a responsibility to transfer them to the counterparty. Depending on the nature of the transaction, this may result in derecognition of the assets 
in their entirety, partial derecognition or no derecognition of the assets subject to the transfer. 

A summary of the main transactions, and the assets and liabilities and the financial risks arising from these transactions, is set out below:

Transfers of financial assets that do not result in derecognition
Securitisations
The Barclays Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its credit card balances. 

In these transactions, the assets, interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special 
purpose entity, which then issues interest bearing debt securities to third party investors. 

Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the 
debt securities issued in the transaction. Partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Barclays Group's continuing involvement 
in those assets can also occur or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations 
created or retained in the transfer. 

The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets that have not resulted in full derecognition, together with the associated 
liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet:

2018 2017
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities

Carrying 
amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying 
amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying 
amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Carrying 
amount 

£m
Fair value

£m
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Credit cards, unsecured and other retail 
lending 4,242 4,334 (4,234) (4,218) 3,772 3,757 (3,635) (3,626)

Balances included within loans and advances at amortised cost represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset have been retained by the Barclays Group.

The relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the 
securitised assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes, although the contractual terms of their 
notes may be different to the maturity and interest of the transferred assets.

For transfers of assets in relation to repurchase agreements, refer to Note 38.

<Page End><Page Start>
342 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Scope of consolidation

37 Securitisations continued
Continuing involvement in financial assets that have been derecognised
In some cases, the Barclays Group may have transferred a financial asset in its entirety but may have continuing involvement in it. This arises in 
asset securitisations where loans and asset backed securities were derecognised as a result of the Barclays Group's involvement with commercial 
mortgage backed securities. Continuing involvement largely arises from providing financing into these structures in the form of retained notes, 
which do not bear first losses. 

The table below shows the potential financial implications of such continuing involvement:

Type of transfer

Continuing involvementa
Gain/(loss) from continuing 

involvement

Carrying 
amount 

£m
Fair value

£m

Maximum 
exposure to 

loss
£m

For the 
year ended

£m

Cumulative to 
31 December

£m
2018
Commercial mortgage backed securities 135 135 135 2 3
2017
Commercial mortgage backed securities 94 94 94 1 1

Note
a Assets which represent the Barclays Group's continuing involvement in derecognised assets are recorded in Loans and advances at amortised cost.

38 Assets pledged
Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security 
deposits relating to derivatives. Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 188 
(unaudited), other than those held in commercial paper conduits. In these transactions, Barclays Group will be required to step in to provide 
financing itself under a liquidity facility if the vehicle cannot access the commercial paper market. The following table summarises the nature 
and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Cash collateral 55,532 56,351
Loans and advances at amortised cost 42,683 41,772
Trading portfolio assets 63,143 73,899
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 7,450 4,798
Financial investments – 15,058
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 10,354 –
Assets pledged 179,162 191,878

Barclays Group has an additional £10bn (2017: £9bn) of loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that can readily be used 
to raise additional secured funding and are available to support future issuances. 

Total assets pledged includes a collateral pool put in place to provide security for the UKRF funding deficit. Refer to Note 33 for further details.

Collateral held as security for assets
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Barclays Group is allowed to resell 
or re-pledge the collateral held. The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and re-pledged to others was as follows:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 598,348 608,412
Of which fair value of securities re-pledged/transferred to others 528,957 547,637

Additional disclosure has been included in collateral and other credit enhancements (see pages 151 to 152). 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 343

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Other disclosure matters
Notes to the financial statements

39 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration 
Related party transactions
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party 
in making financial or operational decisions, or one other party controls both.

Subsidiaries
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries meet the definition of related party transactions. Where these are eliminated on 
consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Barclays Group's financial statements. Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries 
are fully disclosed in Barclays PLC's financial statements. A list of the Barclays Group's principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 34.

Associates, joint ventures and other entities
The Barclays Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures and the Barclays Group pension funds (principally the UK Retirement 
Fund), providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services. 
Barclays Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Barclays Group pension schemes. All of these 
transactions are conducted on the same terms as third party transactions. Summarised financial information for the Barclays Group's investments 
in associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 36.

Amounts included in the Barclays Group's financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:

Associates
£m

Joint ventures
£m

Pension funds
£m

For the year ended and as at 31 December 2018
Total income – 7 4
Credit impairment and other provisions – – –
Operating expenses (27) (7) –
Total assets 12 1,288 3
Total liabilities 85 2 139
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2017
Total income (20) 61 4
Credit impairment and other provisions 2 – –
Operating expenses – (23) –
Total assets 2 1,048 2
Total liabilities 75 2 162
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2016
Total income (20) 32 4
Credit impairment and other provisions (13) – –
Operating expenses – (25) –
Total assets 72 2,244 –
Total liabilities 94 95 260

Guarantees, pledges or commitments given in respect of these transactions in the year were £20m (2017: £27m) predominantly relating to joint 
ventures. No guarantees, pledges or commitments were received in the year. Derivatives transacted on behalf of the pensions funds were £3m 
(2017: £3m).

Key Management Personnel
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities 
of Barclays PLC (directly or indirectly) and comprise the Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive 
and the heads of major business units and functions.

There were no material related party transactions with entities under common directorship where a member of Key Management Personnel 
(or any connected person) is also a member of Key Management Personnel (or any connected person) of Barclays PLC. 

The Barclays Group provides banking services to Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them. Transactions during the year 
and the balances outstanding were as follows:

Loans outstanding
2018

£m
2017

£m
As at 1 January 4.8 9.2
Loans issued during the yeara 4.2 0.5
Loan repayments during the yearb (1.8) (4.9)
As at 31 December 7.2 4.8

Notes
a Includes loans issued to existing Key Management Personnel and new or existing loans issued to newly appointed Key Management Personnel.
b Includes loan repayments by existing Key Management Personnel and loans to former Key Management Personnel.

The notes included in this section focus on related party transactions, Auditors' remuneration and Directors' remuneration. Related parties 
include any subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and Key Management Personnel.

<Page End><Page Start>
344 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

39 Related party transactions and Directors' remuneration continued
No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Key Management Personnel (or any connected person).

Deposits outstanding
2018

£m
2017

£m
As at 1 January 6.9 7.3
Deposits received during the yeara 24.8 25.7
Deposits repaid during the yearb (24.8) (26.1)
As at 31 December 6.9 6.9

Notes
a Includes deposits received from existing Key Management Personnel and new or existing deposits received from newly appointed Key Management Personnel.
b Includes deposits repaid by existing Key Management Personnel and deposits of former Key Management Personnel.

Total commitments outstanding
Total commitments outstanding refers to the total of any undrawn amounts on credit cards and/or overdraft facilities provided to Key Management 
Personnel. Total commitments outstanding as at 31 December 2018 were £0.9m (2017: £0.3m).

All loans to Key Management Personnel (and persons connected to them), (a) were made in the ordinary course of business, (b) were made on 
substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other 
persons and (c) did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.

Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
Total remuneration awarded to Key Management Personnel below represents the awards made to individuals that have been approved by the 
Board Remuneration Committee as part of the latest remuneration decisions, and is consistent with the approach adopted for disclosures set 
out on pages 99 to 126. Costs recognised in the income statement reflect the accounting charge for the year included within operating expenses. 
The difference between the values awarded and the recognised income statement charge principally relates to the recognition of deferred costs 
for prior year awards. Figures are provided for the period that individuals met the definition of Key Management Personnel.

2018
£m

2017
£m

Salaries and other short-term benefits 33.0 33.9
Pension costs – 0.1
Other long-term benefits 7.6 18.4
Share-based payments 16.2 26.8
Employer social security charges on emoluments 7.5 9.6
Costs recognised for accounting purposes 64.3 88.8
Employer social security charges on emoluments (7.5) (9.6)
Other long-term benefits – difference between awards granted and costs recognised 2.8 (9.8)
Share-based payments – difference between awards granted and costs recognised 0.7 (11.7)
Total remuneration awarded 60.3 57.7

Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006
The following information regarding the Barclays PLC Board of Directors is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006:

2018
£m

2017
£m

Aggregate emolumentsa 9.0 8.5
Amounts paid under LTIPsb 0.9 1.1

9.9 9.6

Notes
a The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2018 year. In addition, deferred share awards for 2018 with a total value at grant of £1m (2017: £1m) will be made to 

James E Staley and Tushar Morzaria which will only vest subject to meeting certain conditions.
b The figure above for ‘Amounts paid under LTIPs' in 2018 relates to an LTIP award that was released to Tushar Morzaria in 2018. Dividend shares released on the award are 

excluded. The LTIP figure in the single total figure table for executive Directors' 2018 remuneration in the Directors' Remuneration report relates to the award that is scheduled 
to be released in 2019 in respect of the 2016–2018 LTIP cycle.

There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors (2017: nil). There were no notional pension 
contributions to defined contribution schemes.

As at 31 December 2018, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme (2017: nil).

Directors' and Officers' shareholdings and options
The beneficial ownership of ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 24 persons) at 
31 December 2018 amounted to 18,884,023 (2017: 12,460,877) ordinary shares of 25p each (0.11% of the ordinary share capital outstanding).

As at 31 December 2018, executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 11 persons) held options to purchase a total of  
6,000 (2017: 6,000) Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 120p under Sharesave.

Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors
In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, the total amount of advances and credits made available in 2018 to persons who 
served as Directors during the year was £0.4m (2017: £0.2m). The total value of guarantees entered into on behalf of Directors during 2018 
was nil (2017: nil).

Other disclosure matters

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 345

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

40 Auditors' remuneration
Auditors' remuneration is included within consultancy, legal and professional fees in administration and general expenses and comprises:

2018
£m

2017
£m

2016
£m

Audit of the Barclays Group's annual accounts 8 11 14
Other services:
Audit of the Company's subsidiariesa 32 27 27
Other audit related feesb 9 8 4
Other servicesc 2 2 4
Total Auditors' remuneration 51 48 49

Notes
a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of subsidiaries both inside and outside the UK and fees for work performed by associates of KPMG or PwC in respect of the 

consolidated financial statements of the Company. 
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules 

of the UK listing authority. 
c Includes consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice in 2016.

KPMG became the Barclays Group's principal Auditor in 2017. PwC was the principal Auditor in 2016.

The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to KPMG or PwC as principal Auditor, of which the fees paid in relation to discontinued 
operations were nil (KPMG 2017: £4m, PwC 2016: £12m).

41 Discontinued operations and assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities

Accounting for non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities
The Barclays Group applies IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.

Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than continuing use. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present 
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary and the sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.

A component of the Barclays Group that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale is presented as a discontinued operation 
if it represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of the 
separate major line or geographical area of operations, or if it is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.

Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale
2018

£m
2017

£m
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement – 3
Loans and advances at amortised cost – 1,164
Property, plant and equipment – 26
Total assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale – 1,193

Discontinued operation
Following the reduction of the Barclays Group's interest in BAGL in 2017, the Barclays Group's remaining holding of 14.9%, as at 31 December 2018 
is reported as a financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income in the Head Office division, with the Barclays Group's share of 
BAGL's dividend recognised in the Head Office income statement.

Prior to the disposal of shares on 1 June 2017, BAGL met the requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation. As such, the results, 
which have been presented as the profit after tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued operation on the face of the Barclays 
Group's income statement, are analysed in the income statement below. The income statement, statement of other comprehensive income and 
cash flow statement below represent five months of results as a discontinued operation to 31 May 2017, compared to the full year ended 
31 December 2016.

<Page End><Page Start>
346 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

41 Discontinued operations and assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities continued

Barclays Africa disposal group income statement

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Net interest income – 1,024 2,169
Net fee and commission income – 522 1,072
Net trading income – 149 281
Net investment income – 30 45
Other income – 145 370
Total income – 1,870 3,937
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts – (84) (191)
Total income net of insurance claims – 1,786 3,746
Credit impairment charges and other provisions – (177) (445)
Net operating income – 1,609 3,301
Staff costs – (586) (1,186)
Administration and general expensesa – (1,634) (1,224)
Operating expenses – (2,220) (2,410)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures – 5 6
(Loss)/profit before tax – (606) 897
Taxation – (154) (306)
(Loss)/profit after taxb – (760) 591

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent – (900) 189
Non-controlling interests – 140 402
(Loss)/profit after taxb – (760) 591

Notes
a Includes impairment of nil (2017: £1,090m, 2016: nil).
b Total loss in respect of the discontinued operation incurred in 2017, was £2,195m which included the £60m loss on sale and £1,375m loss on recycling of other comprehensive 

loss on reserves.

Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Available for sale assets –  (3) (9)
Currency translation reserves –  (38) 1,451
Cash flow hedge reserves –  19 89
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of tax from discontinued operations –  (22) 1,531

The cash flows attributed to the discontinued operation are as follows:

For the year ended 31 December
2018

£m
2017

£m
2016

£m
Net cash flows from operating activities – 540 1,164
Net cash flows from investing activities – (245) (691)
Net cash flows from financing activities – (165) (105)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents – (29) 37
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents – 101 405

Other disclosure matters

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 347

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

42 Transition disclosures
Impairment allowance reconciliations
Reconciliation from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 – financial assets under IFRS 9 subject to an increase in impairment allowance
The table below reconciles the closing impairment allowances for financial assets in accordance with IAS 39, and provisions for loan commitments 
and financial guarantee contracts in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as at 31 December 2017, and 
the opening impairment allowances determined in accordance with IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018.

Reconciliation of impairment allowance and provisions
As at 

31 December
 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
Impairment 

allowance under 
IAS 39 or 

provisions 
under IAS 37

£m

Reclassification 
impact

£m

Additional IFRS 9 
impairment 

allowance
£m

Impairment 
allowance 

under IFRS 9
£m

Loans and advances at amortised cost and other assetsa 4,652 (52) 2,508 7,108
Available for sale investments/financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 38 (38) 3 3
Total on-balance sheet 4,690 (90) 2,511 7,111
Provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantee 
contracts 79 – 341 420
Total impairment and provision 4,769 (90) 2,852 7,531

Note
a Includes impairment of £5m for cash collateral and settlement balances and £1m for other assets.

■■ The introduction of IFRS 9 increased the total impairment allowance held by Barclays by £2.76bn, from £4.8bn as at 31 December 2017 
to £7.5bn as at 1 January 2018, as a result of earlier recognition of impairment allowances.

■■ The reclassification impact is due to assets moving to a fair value through income statement treatment that do not have an impairment 
allowance under IFRS 9.

<Page End><Page Start>
348 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

42 Transition disclosures continued
Balance sheet movement – impact of transition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15
The table below presents the impact of the changes to balance sheet presentation and of the transition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on Barclays PLC's 
balance sheet showing separately the changes arising from reclassification and any associated remeasurement, and the impact of increased 
impairment.

As at 31 
December

 2017

As at 31 
December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018

Assets

IAS 39 
measurement 

category

IFRS 9
measurement 

category

Published 
IAS 39 

carrying 
amount

£m

Balance 
sheet 

present-
ation 

changes
£m

Revised 
IAS 39 

carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9
present-

ation 
change

£m

IFRS 9 
classification 

and
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
 impairment

 change
£m

IFRS 9
 carrying 
amount

£m
Cash and balances at central 
banks

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 171,082 – 171,082 – – – – 171,082

Items in the course of collection 
from other banks

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 2,153 (2,153) – – – – – –

Loans and advances to banks Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 35,663 (35,663) – – – – – –

Loans and advances to 
customers

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 365,552 (365,552) – – – – – –

Cash collateral and settlement 
balances

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 77,168 77,168 – – (2,389) (5) 74,774

Loans and advances at 
amortised cost

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 324,048 324,048 – 5,109 (9,467) (2,502) 317,188

Reverse repurchase agreements 
and other similar secured 
lending

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 12,546 – 12,546 – – (11,949) – 597

Trading portfolio assets FVTPL FVTPL 113,760 – 113,760 – – 413 – 114,173
Financial assets designated at 
fair value FVTPL FVTPL 116,281 (116,281) – – – – – –
Financial assets at fair value 
through the income statementa FVTPL FVTPL – 116,281 116,281 – – 23,930 – 140,211
Derivative financial instruments FVTPL FVTPL 237,669 – 237,669 – – – – 237,669
Financial investments AFS – debt 

instruments FVOCI 52,020 – 52,020 – (50,886) (1,134) – –
Financial investments AFS – equity 

instruments FVOCI 1,787 – 1,787 – (1,419) (367) – –
Financial investments Amortised 

cost
Amortised 
cost 5,109 – 5,109 – (5,109) – – –

Financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income AFS FVOCI – – – – 52,305 936 – 53,241
Investments in associates and 
joint ventures N/A N/A 718 – 718 – – (19) – 699
Goodwill and intangible assets N/A N/A 7,849 – 7,849 – – – – 7,849
Property, plant and equipment N/A N/A 2,572 – 2,572 – – – – 2,572
Current tax assets N/A N/A 482 – 482 – – – – 482
Deferred tax assets N/A N/A 3,457 – 3,457 (22) – – 649 4,084
Retirement benefit assets N/A N/A 966 – 966 – – – – 966
Prepayments, accrued income 
and other assets

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 2,389 (2,389) – – – – – –

Other assets Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 4,542 4,542 89 – 31 (1) 4,661

Assets included in disposal 
groups classified as held for sale N/A N/A 1,193 – 1,193 – – – – 1,193
Total assets 1,133,248 – 1,133,248 67 – (15) (1,859) 1,131,441

Note
a Comprised of mandatory fair value assets of £130.2bn and designated fair value assets of £10bn. 

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 349

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

42 Transition disclosures continued
As at 31 

December
 2017

As at 31 
December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018

Liabilities

IAS 39 
measurement 

category

IFRS 9
measurement 

category

Published 
IAS 39 

carrying 
amount

£m

Balance 
sheet 

present-
ation 

changes
£m

Revised 
IAS 39 

carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9
present-

ation 
changes

£m

IFRS 9 
classification 

and
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
 impairment

 change
£m

IFRS 9
 carrying 
amount

£m
Deposits from banks Amortised 

cost
Amortised 
cost 37,723 (37,723) – – – – – –

Deposits at amortised cost Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 398,701 398,701 – – (18,860) – 379,841

Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 446 (446) – – – – – –

Customer accounts Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 429,121 (429,121) – – – – – –

Cash collateral and settlement 
balances

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 68,143 68,143 – – (2,218) – 65,925

Repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured borrowing

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 40,338 – 40,338 – – (25,285) – 15,053

Debt securities in issue Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 73,314 – 73,314 – – – – 73,314

Subordinated liabilities Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 23,826 – 23,826 – – – – 23,826

Trading portfolio liabilities FVTPL FVTPL 37,351 – 37,351 – – – – 37,351
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value FVTPL FVTPL 173,718 – 173,718 – – 46,365 – 220,083
Derivative financial instruments FVTPL FVTPL 238,345 – 238,345 – – – – 238,345
Current tax liabilities N/A N/A 586 – 586 – – – – 586
Deferred tax liabilities N/A N/A 44 – 44 – – – – 44
Retirement benefit liabilities N/A N/A 312 – 312 – – – – 312
Accruals, deferred income and 
other liabilities

Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost 8,565 (8,565) – – – – – –

Other liabilities Amortised 
cost

Amortised 
cost – 9,011 9,011 – – – – 9,011

Provisions N/A N/A 3,543 – 3,543 – – – 341 3,884
Total liabilities 1,067,232 – 1,067,232 – – 2 341 1,067,575

Equity
Called up share capital and 
share premium N/A N/A 22,045 – 22,045 – – – – 22,045
Other reserves N/A N/A 5,383 – 5,383 – – (139) 3 5,247
Retained earnings N/A N/A 27,536 – 27,536 67 – 122 (2,203) 25,522
Other equity instruments N/A N/A 8,941 – 8,941 – – – – 8,941
Total equity excluding  
non-controlling interests N/A N/A 63,905 – 63,905 67 – (17) (2,200) 61,755
Non-controlling interests N/A N/A 2,111 – 2,111 – – – – 2,111
Total equity 66,016 – 66,016 67 – (17) (2,200) 63,866

Total liabilities and equity 1,133,248 – 1,133,248 67 – (15) (1,859) 1,131,441

Balance sheet and IFRS 9 presentation changes 
The following voluntary changes in presentation have been made as a result of the review of accounting presentation following the adoption of 
IFRS 9, and is expected to provide more relevant information to the users of the financial statements. These presentational changes have no effect 
on the measurement of these items and therefore had no impact on retained earnings or profit for any period. The effect of these presentational 
changes on transition are noted below:
■■ ‘Items in the course of collection from other banks' and ‘prepayments, accrued income and other assets' are reported in ‘other assets'. Equally, 

‘items in the course of collection due to other banks' and ‘accruals, deferred income and other liabilities' are reported in ‘other liabilities'
■■ ‘Loans and advances to banks' and ‘loans and advances to customers' have been disaggregated and are now reported in ‘loans and advances 

at amortised cost' and ‘cash collateral and settlement balances'
■■ ‘Deposits from banks' and ‘customer accounts' have been disaggregated and are now reported in ‘deposits at amortised cost' and ‘cash 

collateral and settlement balances'
■■ ‘Financial assets designated at fair value' are now reported within ‘financial assets at fair value through the income statement'
■■ The majority of available for sale assets which were previously reported in ‘financial investments' are now reported in ‘financial assets at fair 

value through other comprehensive income'
■■ Held to maturity assets which were previously reported in ‘financial investments' are now reported in ‘loans and advances at amortised cost'.

<Page End><Page Start>
350 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

42 Transition disclosures continued
IFRS 15 impact
On adoption of IFRS 15, Barclays Group changed its accounting treatment in relation to certain costs incurred in obtaining contracts with credit 
card customers. The costs of acquiring such contracts had previously been recognised as operating expenses when they were incurred. The 
adoption of IFRS 15 has resulted in the costs being capitalised as a cost to obtain an asset and recognised within ‘other assets' on the balance 
sheet. The asset will be amortised over the expected life of the customer relationship, with the corresponding expense recognised in the income 
statement. The cumulative effect of the change as of 1 January 2018 was an increase to retained earnings of £67m and the recognition of an asset 
of £89m. There were no other material changes to fee recognition from the adoption of IFRS 15.

IFRS 9 classification and measurement 
This column represents the changes to the balance sheet from classification and measurement. The net effect is a decrease in shareholders' equity 
of £17m, with no significant offsetting movements. The classification changes include the transfer of certain Barclays International Prime Services 
and Equities business positions from an amortised cost to a fair value approach.

There are no other changes in measurement category.

IFRS 9 impairment change
Additional impairment from the adoption of IFRS 9 is shown in the impairment change column. The increase in impairment results in the 
recognition of a deferred tax asset. The post-tax impact is a reduction in shareholders' equity of £2.2bn. Impairment allowance under IFRS 9 
considers both the drawn and the undrawn counterparty exposure. For retail portfolios, the total impairment allowance is allocated to the 
drawn exposure to the extent that the allowance does not exceed the exposure. Any excess is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet 
as a provision. For wholesale portfolios the impairment allowance on the undrawn exposure is reported on the liability side of the balance 
sheet as a provision.

Impact of IFRS 9 per financial statement line
The narrative below provides further granularity on the impact of changes to the balance sheet from the transition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on 
Barclays PLC's balance sheet as presented in the tables on pages 350 to 354. The analysis shows transfers between balance sheet lines arising 
from reclassification and any associated remeasurement, and the impact of increased impairment. Further details are provided for balance sheet 
lines with multiple impacts.

Assets
Cash collateral and settlement balances – measured on an amortised cost basis
Transfer out: Balances of £2,389m are reclassified to ‘Financial assets at fair value through the income statement' as a result of the assessment 
of the business model. Balances are reclassified from amortised cost to fair value through profit and loss as the business model is classified as 
‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect' as the portfolio is risk managed on a fair value basis. 

Expected credit losses have decreased the balances by £5m. 

Loans and advances at amortised cost
Transfer in: Held to maturity assets of £5,109m which were previously reported in ‘Financial Investments' are reported in this balance sheet line. 
‘Financial investments' (available for sale) balances of £653m, ‘Financial assets designated at fair value' balances of £485m, and ‘Trading portfolio 
assets' of £73m are reclassified to this balance sheet line following the assessment of the business model which is classified as ‘Hold to Collect' 
and meets the SPPI test. There has been a remeasurement impact of £29m due to reclassification to an amortised cost line from ‘Financial assets 
designated at fair value'.

Transfer out: Balances of £9,279m are reclassified to ‘Financial assets mandatory at fair value', balances of £478m moved to ‘Trading portfolio 
assets', and balances of £15m reclassified to ‘Financial assets designated at fair value' as a result of the assessment of the business model which 
is classified as ‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect'. The balances are subsequently measured on a fair value basis rather than amortised cost. 
In addition, balances of £936m are reclassified to ‘Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income' as a result of the 
assessment of the business model which is classified as ‘Hold to Collect and Sell' and meets the SPPI test. 

Expected credit losses have decreased the balance by £2,502m.

As at 
31 December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Opening balance 324,048 324,048
Transfer in:
– From financial investments (held to maturity) – – 5,109 – – – 5,109
– From financial investments (available for sale) – – – 653 – – 653
– From financial assets designated at fair value – – – 485 29 – 514
– From trading portfolio assets – – – 73 – – 73
Transfer out: –
– To financial assets mandatory at fair value – – – (9,279) – – (9,279)
– To financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income – – – (936) – – (936)
– To trading portfolio assets – – – (478) – – (478)
– To financial assets designated at fair value – – – (15) – – (15)
Increase in expected credit losses – – – – – (2,502) (2,502)
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 324,048 – 5,109 (9,497) 29 (2,502) 317,188

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 351

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

42 Transition disclosures continued
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending – measured on an amortised cost basis
Transfer out: Balances of £11,949m are reclassified to ‘Financial assets at fair value through the income statement' as a result of the assessment 
of the business model which is classified as ‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect'. The balances are subsequently measured on a fair value basis 
rather than amortised cost.

Trading portfolio assets – measured on a fair value basis
Transfer in: Balances from ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' of £478m, ‘Financial Investments' of £10m, and ‘Financial assets mandatory 
at fair value' of £9m are reclassified to this balance sheet line as a result of the assessment of the business model in accordance with IFRS 9. 
There has been a remeasurement impact of £11m due to reclassification from an amortised cost basis.

Transfer out: Balances of £73m are reclassified to ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' as a result of the assessment of the business model 
which is classified as ‘Hold to Collect' and meets the SPPI test.   

Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
Balances of £105,844m are moved to ‘Financial assets mandatory at fair value' for presentational purposes and in accordance with IFRS 9.

Transfer in: Balances of £15m from ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' are elected to ‘Financial assets designated at fair value'. ‘Reverse 
repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending' balances of £11,949m, ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' balances of £9,279m 
and ‘Cash collateral and settlement balances' of £2,389m are reclassified to this balance sheet line as a result of the assessment of the business 
model which is classified as ‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect'. The balances are subsequently measured on a fair value basis rather than 
amortised cost. There has been a remeasurement impact of £14m due to reclassification from an amortised cost basis. Balances of £838m 
are reclassified from ‘Financial investments (available for sale)' as a result of the assessment of the business model which is classified as 
‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect and Sell'. The balances are subsequently measured on a fair value basis rather than amortised cost. 

Transfer out: Balances of £485m are reclassified to ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' as a result of the assessment of the business model 
which is classified as ‘Hold to Collect' and meets the SPPI test. In addition, balances of £31m and £9m are reclassified to ‘Other assets' and 
‘Trading portfolio assets' as a result of the assessment of the business model in accordance with IFRS 9.

As at 
31 December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Financial assets at fair value through the income 
statement
Financial assets designated at fair value
Opening balance 116,281 116,281
Transfer in:
– From loans and advances at amortised cost – – – 15 – – 15
Transfer out:
– To financial assets mandatory at fair value – – (105,844) – – – (105,844)
– To loans and advances at amortised cost – – – (485) – – (485)
Financial assets mandatory at fair value
Transfer in:
– From financial assets designated at fair value – – 105,844 – – – 105,844
– From reverse repurchase agreements – – – 11,949 – – 11,949
– From loans and advances at amortised cost – – – 9,279 (14) – 9,265
– From cash collateral and settlement balances – – – 2,389 – – 2,389
– From financial investments (available for sale) – – – 838 – – 838
Transfer out:
– To other assets – – – (31) – – (31)
– To trading portfolio assets – – – (9) – – (9)
Total financial assets at fair value through the income 
statement 116,281 – – 23,944 (14) – 140,211

Financial investments
Transfer out: The Barclays Group has applied the fair value through other comprehensive income option under IFRS 9 for the value of £52,305m 
as a result of the assessment of the business model, with balances moving to ‘Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income'. 
Balances of £838m are reclassified to ‘Financial assets at fair value through the income statement' and balances of £10m reclassified to ‘Trading 
portfolio assets' as a result of the assessment of the business model which is classified as ‘Other' rather than ‘Hold to Collect'. Balances of £653m 
are reclassified to ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' as a result of the assessment of the business model which is classified as ‘Hold to 
Collect' and meets the SPPI test.

<Page End><Page Start>
352 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

42 Transition disclosures continued
From a presentational basis, Held to maturity assets of £5,109m are now reported in ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost'.

As at 
31 December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Financial investments
Available for sale (measured at fair value)
Opening balance 53,807 53,807
Transfer out:
–  To financial assets at fair value through other 

comprehensive income – – (52,305) – – – (52,305)
–  To other financial assets at fair value through the 

income statement – – – (838) – – (838)
– To trading portfolio assets – – – (10) – – (10)
– To loans and advances at amortised cost – – – (653) – – (653)
Held to maturity (measured at amortised cost)
Opening balance 5,109 5,109
Transfer out:
– To loans and advances at amortised cost – – (5,109) – – – (5,109)
Total financial investments 58,916 – (57,414) (1,501) – – –

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Transfer in: As above, Barclays has applied the fair value through other comprehensive income option under IFRS 9 for the value of £52,305m. 
Balances of £936m are reclassified from ‘Loans and advances at amortised cost' as a result of the assessment of the business model which is 
classified as ‘Hold to Collect and Sell' and meets the SPPI test.

Investments in associates and joint ventures
The adoption of IFRS 9 on associates and joint ventures results in a lower Barclays Group share of profit and loss, thereby decreasing the 
investment by £19m. 

Deferred tax assets
The balance has increased by £627m due to the tax impact of expected credit losses of £649m, offset by £22m due to the impact of IFRS 15.

Other assets
Transfer in: Balances of £31m reclassified from ‘Financial assets at fair value through the income statement' as a result of the assessment 
of the business model which is classified as ‘Hold to Collect' and meets the SPPI test.

In addition, the balance increased by £89m due to the impact of IFRS 15.

Expected credit losses have decreased the balance by £1m.

Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost
Transfer out: Balances of £18,860m are reclassified to ‘Financial liabilities designated at fair value' as a result of trades that are linked to assets 
for accounting symmetry.

Cash collateral and settlement balances – measured on an amortised cost basis
Transfer out: Balances of £2,218m are reclassified to ‘Financial liabilities designated at fair value' as a result of trades that are linked to assets 
for accounting symmetry.

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing – measured on an amortised cost basis
Transfer out: Balances of £25,285m are reclassified to ‘Financial liabilities designated at fair value' as a result of trades that are linked to assets 
for accounting symmetry.

Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Transfer in: ‘Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing' balances of £25,285m, ‘Deposits at amortised cost' balances of 
£18,860m, and ‘Cash collateral and settlement balances' of £2,218m reclassified to this balance sheet line as a result of trades that are linked to 
assets for accounting symmetry. There has been a remeasurement impact of £2m due to reclassification from ‘Repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured borrowing' on an amortised cost basis.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 353

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

42 Transition disclosures continued
As at 

31 December
 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Opening balance 173,718 173,718
Transfers in:
–  From repurchase agreements and other similar 

secured borrowing – – – 25,285 2 – 25,287
– From deposits at amortised cost – – – 18,860 – – 18,860
– From cash collateral and settlement balances – – – 2,218 – – 2,218
Total financial liabilities designated at fair value 173,718 – – 46,363 2 – 220,083

Provisions
The balance has increased by £341m due to expected credit losses on off balance sheet provisions.

Equity
The adoption of IFRS 9 results in a credit moving from the Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (formerly available for sale 
reserve) to Retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impairment recognised in profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 (net of impairment losses 
previously recognised in profit or loss under IAS 39). The amount transferred from ‘Other reserves' to ‘Retained earnings' was £139m. In addition, 
a £3m increase relates to expected credit losses on ‘Fair value through other comprehensive income'. The cumulative remeasurement due to 
reclassification was £17m. The cumulative expected credit losses (post-tax) recognised in ‘Retained earnings' was £2,203m.

In addition, the balance increased by £67m due to the impact of IFRS 15.

As at 
31 December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Other reserves
Opening balance 5,383 5,383
Transfers out:
– To retained earnings – – – (139) – – (139)
Increase in expected credit losses – – – – – 3 3
Total other reserves 5,383 – – (139) – 3 5,247

As at 
31 December

 2017

As at 
1 January 

2018
 Revised IAS 39

 carrying 
amount

£m

IFRS 15 
impact

£m

IFRS 9 
presentation

 changes
£m

IFRS 9 
classification

£m

IFRS 9 
 measurement

£m

IFRS 9 
impairment 

change
£m

IFRS 9 
carrying 
amount

£m
Retained earnings
Opening balance 27,536 27,536
Increases/(decreases):
From other reserves – – – 139 – – 139
Remeasurement due to reclassifications – – – (17) – – (17)
Increases due to IFRS 15 – 67 – – – – 67
Impairment (after tax) – – – – – (2,203) (2,203)
Total retained earnings 27,536 67 – 122 – (2,203) 25,522

Reclassification to amortised cost
The following table shows the effects of the reclassification of financial assets and financial liabilities from IAS 39 categories into the amortised 
cost category under IFRS 9. The table shows the fair value gains or losses that would have been recognised had these balances not been 
reclassified to amortised cost.

<Page End><Page Start>
354 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure matters

42 Transition disclosures continued

As at 31 December 2018
Total

£m
From available for sale financial assets under IAS 39
Fair value as at 31 December 2018 490
Fair value loss that would have been recognised for the year ended 31 December 2018 in other comprehensive income if the 
financial assets had not been reclassified (1)
From financial assets at fair value through the income statement under IAS 39
Fair value as at 31 December 2018 489
Fair value gain that would have been recognised for the year ended 31 December 2018 in profit or loss if the financial assets had 
not been reclassified 4
Effective interest rate determined on the date of initial application 1.81%
Interest income recognised for the year ended 31 December 2018 9

■■ The balance as at 31 December 2018 of £490m reflects a decrease since transition due to disposals of assets of £162m during the year and 
a fair value decrease of £1m (1 January 2018: £653m). The majority of the balance is related to the Municipals portfolio that contains highly 
rated floating rate bonds measured at par with no fair value impact. The fair value loss that would have been recognised is £1m related to 
collateralised mortgage obligations.

■■ The balance as at 31 December 2018 of £489m is mainly related to the ESHLA portfolio. The fair value gain that would have been recognised 
for the period was £4m (1 January 2018: £485).

43 Barclays PLC (the Parent company)
Total income
Dividends received from subsidiaries
Dividends received from subsidiaries of £15,360m (2017: £674m, 2016: £621m) primarily includes a dividend in specie, representing the transfer 
of the holding in Barclays Bank UK PLC from Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays PLC, as well as ordinary dividends from subsidiaries.

Other income
Other income of £923m (2017: £690m, 2016: £334m) includes £752m (2017: £639m, 2016: £457m) of income received from gross coupon 
payments on Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC issued AT1 securities.

Non-current assets and liabilities
Investment in subsidiaries
The investment in subsidiaries of £57,374m (2017: £39,354m) predominantly relates to investments made into Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. This further includes investments in AT1 securities of £9,666m (2017: £8,986m). The increase of £18,020m during the year was 
predominantly driven by the £14,025m holding in Barclays Bank UK PLC, capital contributions into Barclays Bank PLC totalling £3,046m and 
a net increase in AT1 securities of £680m.

Subordinated liabilities and debt securities in issue
During the period, Barclays PLC issued $7,000m of Fixed and Floating Rate Senior Notes, €1,805m Fixed Rate Senior Notes, £1,500m Fixed Rate 
Senior Notes, ¥147,600m Fixed Rate Bonds, AUD 600m Fixed and Floating Rate Senior Debt and CHF175m Fixed Rate Senior Debt within the debt 
securities in issue balance of £32,373m (2017: £22,110m). Barclays PLC did not issue any subordinated liabilities in the period.

Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
The financial assets at fair value through the income statement relate to loans made to subsidiaries of the Barclays Group. These include 
a feature that allows for the loan to be written down in whole or in part by the borrower only in the event that the liabilities of the subsidiary 
would otherwise exceed its assets. Following the implementation of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, loans that were treated as available for sale assets 
were reclassified as financial assets held at fair value through the income statement.

Derivative financial instruments
The derivative financial instrument of £168m (2017: £161m) held by the Parent company represents Barclays PLC's right to receive a Capital Note 
for no additional consideration, in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV CET1 ratio (FSA October 2012 transitional statement) falls 
below 7% at which point the notes are automatically assigned by the holders to Barclays PLC.

Management of internal investments, loans and advances
Barclays PLC retains the discretion to manage the nature of its internal investments in its subsidiaries according to their regulatory and business 
needs. Barclays PLC may invest capital and funding into Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and other Barclays Group subsidiaries such as the 
Group Service Company and the US Intermediate Holding Company (IHC). In June 2018 the Bank of England published its updated statement of 
policy on ‘The Bank of England's approach to setting a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL)'. Accordingly, during the 
course of December 2018, Barclays restructured certain investments in subsidiaries, including subordinating internal MREL instruments beneath 
operating liabilities, to the extent required to achieve compliance with internal MREL requirements which are in effect from 1 January 2019.

Total equity
Called up share capital and share premium of Barclays PLC was £4,311m (2017: £22,045m). Other equity instruments of £9,633m (2017: £8,943m) 
comprises AT1 securities. For further details, refer to Note 29.

Share premium
On 11 September 2018, the High Court of Justice in England and Wales confirmed the cancellation of the share premium account of Barclays PLC, 
with the balance of £17,873m credited to retained earnings.

Other reserves
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, the available for sale reserve of £86m has been transferred to retained earnings.

Retained earnings
Following the capital reorganisation and receipt of a dividend in specie from Barclays Bank PLC representing its holding in Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
retained earnings have increased from £7,737m to £39,842m in the period.

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 355

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

44 Related undertakings
The Barclays Group's corporate structure 
consists of a number of related undertakings, 
comprising subsidiaries, joint ventures, 
associates and significant other interests. 
A full list of these undertakings, the country 
of incorporation and the ownership of each 
share class is set out below. The information 
is provided as at 31 December 2018. 

The entities are grouped by the countries 
in which they are incorporated. The profits 
earned by the activities of these entities are 
in some cases taxed in countries other than 
the country of incorporation. Barclays' 2018 
Country Snapshot provides details of where 
the Group carries on its business, where its 
profits are subject to tax and the taxes it 
pays in each country it operates in.

Wholly owned subsidiaries 
Unless otherwise stated the undertakings 
below are wholly owned and consolidated 
by Barclays and the share capital disclosed 
comprises ordinary and/or common shares, 
100% of the nominal value of which is held 
by Barclays Group subsidiaries. 

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Aequor Investments Limited  
Ardencroft Investments Limited
B D & B Investments Limited
B.P.B. (Holdings) Limited
Barafor Limited
Barclay Leasing Limited  
Barclays (Barley) Limited J,K
Barclays Aldersgate Investments Limited
Barclays Asset Management Limited  
Barclays Bank PLC A, F, I
Barclays Bank UK PLC A
Barclays Capital Asia Holdings Limited
Barclays Capital Finance Limited
Barclays Capital Japan Securities Holdings 
Limited
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.2) Limited  
Barclays Capital Nominees (No.3) Limited  
Barclays Capital Nominees Limited
Barclays Capital Principal Investments Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Client Nominee 
Limited
Barclays Capital Securities Limited F, I, O
Barclays CCP Funding LLP B
Barclays Converted Investments (No.2) Limited
Barclays Direct Investing Nominees Limited
Barclays Directors Limited
Barclays Equity Holdings Limited
Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees Limited
Barclays Financial Planning Nominee Company 
Limited
Barclays Funds Investments Limited
Barclays Global Shareplans Nominee Limited
Barclays Group Holdings Limited
Barclays Group Operations Limited
Barclays Industrial Development Limited
Barclays Industrial Investments Limited
Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited  
Barclays Investment Management Limited  
Barclays Investment Solutions Limited

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Barclays Leasing (No.9) Limited
Barclays Long Island Limited
Barclays Marlist Limited
Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited
Barclays Nominees (George Yard) Limited
Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited  
Barclays Principal Investments Limited A, J, K
Barclays Private Bank  
Barclays SAMS Limited
Barclays Security Trustee Limited A
Barclays Services (Japan)  Limited
Barclays Services Limited A 
Barclays Shea Limited
Barclays Singapore Global Shareplans Nominee 
Limited
Barclays Term Funding Limited Liability 
Partnership

B

Barclays UK Investments Limited
Barclays Unquoted Investments Limited
Barclays Unquoted Property Investments 
Limited
Barclays Wealth Nominees Limited
Barclayshare Nominees Limited
Barcosec Limited
Barsec Nominees Limited
BB Client Nominees Limited
BMBF (No.24) Limited
BMI (No.9) Limited
BNRI ENG 2013 Limited Partnership B
BNRI ENG 2014 Limited Partnership B
BNRI ENG GP LLP B
BNRI England 2010 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2011 Limited Partnership B
BNRI England 2012 Limited Partnership B
Carnegie Holdings Limited I, J, K
Chapelcrest Investments Limited
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited
Cobalt Investments Limited
Condor No.1 Limited Partnership B
Cornwall Homes Loans Limited
CP Flower Guaranteeco (UK) Limited E

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
CP Propco 1 Limited
CP Propco 2 Limited
CP Topco Limited J, K
CPIA England 2008 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England 2009 Limited Partnership B
CPIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
DMW Realty Limited
Dorset Home Loans Limited
Durlacher Nominees Limited  
Eagle Financial and Leasing Services (UK) 
Limited
Equity Value Investments No.1 Limited
Equity Value Investments No.2 Limited
Finpart Nominees Limited  
FIRSTPLUS Financial Group Limited  
Foltus Investments Limited
Global Dynasty Natural Resource Private B
Equity Limited Partnership
Globe Nominees Limited
Hawkins Funding Limited
Heraldglen Limited G, H, I
Investors In Infrastructure Limited
J.V. Estates Limited
Kirsche Investments Limited
Long Island Assets Limited
Maloney Investments Limited
Menlo Investments Limited
Mercantile Credit Company Limited
Mercantile Leasing Company (No.132) Limited 
MK Opportunities LP B
Murray House Investment Management Limited
Naxos Investments Limited
North Colonnade Investments Limited
Northwharf Investments Limited I, X
Northwharf Nominees Limited
PIA England No.2 Limited Partnership B
Real Estate Participation Management Limited
Real Estate Participation Services Limited
Relative Value Investments UK Limited B
Liability Partnership
Relative Value Trading Limited

Notes

A Directly held by Barclays PLC

B Partnership Interest

C Membership Interest

D Trust Interest

E Guarantor

F Preference Shares

G A Preference Shares

H B Preference Shares

I Ordinary/Common Shares in addition to other 
shares

J A Ordinary Shares

K B Ordinary Shares

L C Ordinary Shares

M F Ordinary Shares

N W Ordinary Shares

O Redeemable Preference Shares

P Non-Redeemable Ordinary Class A & B

Q Core Shares and Insurance (Classified) Shares 

R B, C, D, E (94.36%), F (94.36%), G (94.36%), 
H (94.36%), I (94.36%), J (95.23%) and K Class 
Shares

S A Unit Shares, B Unit Shares

T Non-Redeemable Ordinary Shares

U Preferred Shares Class A,B,C and D

V Class A Ordinary Shares, Class A Preference 
Shares,  Class B Ordinary Shares, Class C
Ordinary Shares, Class C Preference Shares,
Class D Ordinary Shares, Class D Preference
Shares, Class E Ordinary Shares, Class E
Preference Shares, Class F Ordinary Shares, 
Class F Preference Shares, Class H 2012 
Ordinary Shares, Class H 2012 Preference 
Shares, Class H Ordinary Shares, Class H 
Preference Shares, Class I Preference Shares, 
Class J Ordinary Shares, Class J Preference Shares

W First Class Common Shares, Second Class 
Common Shares

X PEF Carry Shares

Y EUR Tracker 1 Shares, GBP Tracker 1 Shares, 
USD Tracker 1 Shares, USD Tracker
2 Shares, USD Tracker 3 shares

Z Not Consolidated (see Note 35 Structured entities)

AA USD Linked Ordinary Shares

BB Redeemable Class B Shares

CC A Ordinary, Y Ordinary, Z Ordinary

DD Nominal Shares

EE Redeemable Class A & Class B Preference Shares

FF Class B Redeemable Preference Shares

GG Class A1 Ordinary Shares, Class A2 Ordinary 
Shares

HH Class A Unit Shares 

II A Shares – Tranche I, Premium – Tranche I, C 
Shares – Tranche II, Premium – Tranche II

JJ Capital Contribution Shares 

KK Registered Address not in country of incorporation

<Page End><Page Start>
356 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure mattersOther disclosure matters

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Roder Investments No. 1 Limited I, Y
Roder Investments No. 2 Limited I, Y
Ruthenium Investments Limited
RVT CLO Investments LLP B
Solution Personal Finance Limited
Surety Trust Limited
Swan Lane Investments Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.1 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No. 2 Limited
US Real Estate Holdings No.3 Limited
Wedd Jefferson (Nominees) Limited
Westferry Investments Limited
Woolwich Homes Limited
Woolwich Plan Managers Limited
Woolwich Qualifying Employee Share 
Ownership Trustee Limited
Woolwich Surveying Services Limited
Zeban Nominees Limited
– Hill House, 1 Little New Street, 
London, EC4A 3TR
Barclays Mercantile Limited (In Liquidation)
Barclays Nominees (Branches) Limited 
(In Liquidation)
Barclays Nominees (K.W.S.) Limited 
(In Liquidation)
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited (In Liquidation)
Barclays USD Funding LLP (In Liquidation) B
BMBF (No.3) Limited (In Liquidation)
BMBF (No.6) Limited (In Liquidation)
BMBF (No.9) Limited (In Liquidation) 
Gerrard Financial Planning Limited 
(In Liquidation)
Gerrard Management Services Limited 
(In Liquidation)
Gerrard Nominees Limited (In Liquidation)
Greig, Middleton Nominees Limited 
(In Liquidation)
Lombard Street Nominees Limited 
(In Liquidation)
– 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf,  
London, E14 4BB
Leonis Investments LLP B
Preferred Liquidity Limited Partnership B
– Aurora Building, 120 Bothwell Street,  
Glasgow, G2 7JS
R.C. Grieg Nominees Limited
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, 
EH3 9WJ
BNRI PIA Scot GP Limited
BNRI Scots GP, LLP B
Pecan Aggregator LP B
– 1 New Street Square, London, EC4A 3HQ 
Keepier Investments (In Liquidation)
– Logic House, Waterfront Business Park, 
Fleet Road, Fleet, GU1 3SB
The Logic Group Enterprises Limited
The Logic Group Holdings Limited J
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
Barclays Claudas Investments Partnership B, KK
Barclays Pelleas Investments Limited 
Partnership

B, KK

Blossom Finance General Partnership B, KK

Argentina
– 855 Leandro N.Alem Avenue, 8th Floor, 
Buenos Aires
Compañía Sudamerica S.A.
– Marval, O'Farrell & Mairal, Av. Leandro N. 
Alem 882, Buenos Aires, C1001AAQ
Compañia Regional del Sur S.A.

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Brazil
– Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, No. 4.440, 12th 
04538-132
Barclays Brasil Assessoria Financeira Ltda.
BNC Brazil Consultoria Empresarial Ltda

Canada
– 333 Bay Street, Suite 4910, Toronto  
ON M5H 2R2
Barclays Capital Canada Inc.
– Stikeman Elliot LLP, 199 Bay Street, 5300 
Commerce Court West, Toronto ON M5L 1B9
Barclays Corporation Limited
– 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, 
London, E14 4BB
CPIA Canada Holdings B, KK
  

Cayman Islands  
– Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 
309, Ugland House, George Town, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-1104
Alymere Investments Limited G, H, I
Analytical Trade UK Limited
Barclays Capital (Cayman) Limited
Braven Investments No.1 Limited
Capton Investments Limited
Claudas Investments Limited I, EE
Claudas Investments Two Limited
CPIA Investments No.1 Limited V
CPIA Investments No.2 Limited F, I 
Hurley Investments No.1 Limited
Iris Investments 1 Limited (In Liquidation)
Mintaka Investments No. 4 Limited
OGP Leasing Limited
Pelleas Investments Limited
Pelleas Investments Two Limited F, I

Pippin Island Investments Limited

Razzoli Investments Limited F, I
RVH Limited F, I
– PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-1102
Blaytell Limited (In Liquidation)
Coskwo Limited (In Liquidation)
Godler Limited (In Liquidation)
Harflane Limited  (In Liquidation)
Hentock Limited (In Liquidation)
Hollygrice Limited (In Liquidation)
Pilkbull Limited (In Liquidation)
Strickyard Limited (In Liquidation)

Winhall Limited (In Liquidation)
– 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-9005
Calthorpe Investments Limited
Gallen Investments Limited
JV Assets Limited L
Palomino Limited Z
Wessex Investments Limited
– Walkers Corporate Limited, Cayman 
Corporate Centre, 27 Hospital Road, 
George Town, KY1– 9008
Long Island Holding B Limited

China
– Room 213, Building 1, No. 1000 Chenhui 
Road,  Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai
Barclays Technology Centre (Shanghai)
Company Limited (In Liquidation)

France
– 34/36 avenue de Friedland, Paris, 75008
BBAIL SAS

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Germany
– TaunusTurm, Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt
 Barclays Capital Effekten GmbH
– Stuttgarter Straße 55-57, 73033 Göppingen 
Holding Stuttgarter Straße GmbH

Guernsey
– P.O. Box 33, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, 
St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT
Barclays Insurance Guernsey PCC Limited Q 
– PO BOX 41, Floor 2, Le Marchant House, 
Le Truchot, St Peter Port, GY1 3BE
Barclays Nominees (Guernsey) Limited

Hong Kong
– 42nd floor Citibank Tower, Citibank Plaza, 
3 Garden Road
Barclays Bank (Hong Kong Nominees) Limited 
(in Liquidation)
Barclays Capital Asia Nominees Limited (In 
Liquidation)
– Level 41, Cheung Kong Center, 2 Queen's 
Road Central
Barclays Asia Limited
Barclays Capital Asia Limited

India
– 208 Ceejay House, Shivsagar Estate, 
Dr A Beasant Road, Worli, Mumbai, 400 018 
Barclays Securities (India) Private Limited
Barclays Wealth Trustees (India) Private Limited
– Ground to Fourth Floor, Wing 3 – Cluster A, 
Eon Free Zone, MIDC Knowledge Park, 
Kharadi, Pune, 411014
Barclays Global Service Centre Private Limited
– Level 10, Block B6, Nirlon Knowledge Park, 
Off Western Express Highway, Goregaon 
(East), Mumbai, 40063
Barclays Investments & Loans (India) Limited F, I

Indonesia
– Barclays House, 12th Floor, Jl. Jend Sudirman  
Kav. 22-23, Jakarta, 12920 
PT Bank Barclays Indonesia (In Liquidation)
– Plaza Lippo, 10th Floor, Jalan Jend, Sudirman  
Kav 25, Jakarta, 12920
PT Bhadra Buana Persada (In Liquidation)

Ireland
– One Molesworth Street, Dublin 2, D02RF29
Barclaycard International Payments Limited
Barclays Bank Ireland Public Limited Company
Barclays Europe Client Nominees Designated 
Activity Company
Barclays Europe Firm Nominees Designated 
Activity Company
Barclays Europe Nominees Designated Activity 
Company
– 25-28 North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, D01H104
Erimon Home Loans Ireland Limited

Isle of Man
– Barclays House, Victoria Street, Douglas 
Barclays Nominees (Manx) Limited
– P O Box 9, Victoria Street, Douglas, IM99 1AJ
Barclays Private Clients International Limited J, K

Japan
– 10-1, Roppongi 6-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 
Barclays Funds and Advisory Japan Limited
Barclays Securities Japan Limited
Barclays Wealth Services Limited

44 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 357

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Sh
areh

older in
form

ation
Fin

an
cial statem

en
ts

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Jersey
– 2nd Floor, Gaspé House, 66-72 Esplanade, 
St. Helier, JE1 1GH
CP Newco 1 Limited
CP Newco2 Limited J, K
CP Newco3 Limited
– La Motte Chambers, St Helier, JE1 1BJ
Barclays Services Jersey Limited
– 39-41 Broad Street, St Helier, JE2 3RR
Barclays Wealth Management Jersey Limited
BIFML PTC Limited
– 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT
Barclays Index Finance Trust S
– Lime Grove House, Green Street,  
St Helier, JE1 2ST
Barbridge Limited (In Liquidation) I, DD 
– 13 Library Place, St Helier, JE4 8NE
Barclays Nominees (Jersey) Limited
Barclaytrust Channel Islands Limited
– Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited, PO Box 207, 
13-14 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1BD 
MK Opportunities GP Ltd

Korea, Republic of
– A-1705 Yeouido Park Centre, 28-3 
Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul
Barclays Korea GP Limited

Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
Barclays Alzin Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bayard Investments S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Bedivere Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays Bordang Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays BR Investments S.à r.l.  
Barclays Cantal Investments S.à r.l. GG
Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.à r.l.
Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Claudas Investments S.à r.l. P
Barclays Equity Index Investments S.à r.l.
Barclays International Luxembourg Dollar
Holdings S.à r.l.
Barclays Lamorak Investments S.à r.l. T
Barclays Leto Investments S.à r.l. J, K, L
Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings S.à r.l T
Barclays Luxembourg Finance S.à r.l.
Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings S.à r.l. T
Barclays Luxembourg Global Funding S.à r.l. J, K
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings S.à r.l. I, AA
Barclays Luxembourg Holdings SSC B
Barclays Pelleas Investments S.à r.l.
– 68-70 Boulevard de la Petrusse, L-2320
Adler Toy Holding Sarl

Mauritius
– C/O Rogers Capital Corporate Services, 
St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & 
St. Louis Streets, Port Louis
Barclays Capital Mauritius Limited  

Barclays Capital Securities Mauritius Limited
– Fifth Floor, Ebene Esplanade, 24 Cybercity, 
Ebene
Barclays (H&B) Mauritius Limited (In 
Liquidation)
Barclays Mauritius Overseas Holdings Limited

Mexico
– Paseo de la Reforma 505, 41 Floor, Torre  
Mayor, Col. Cuauhtemoc, CP 06500
Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A. K, M
Barclays Capital Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. K, M 
Grupo Financiero Barclays Mexico, S.A. de C.V. K, M 
Servicios Barclays, S.A. de C.V.

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note

Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, BP 339
Barclays Private Asset Management (Monaco) 
S.A.M

Netherlands
– Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 Hj 
Amsterdam
Chewdef BidCo BV. (In Liquidation)

Nigeria
– Southgate House, Udi Street, Osborne 
Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos 
Barclays Group Representative Office (NIG) 
Limited (In Liquidation)

Philippines
– 21/F, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo de 
Roxas, Makati City, 1226 
Meridian (SPV-AMC) Corporation

Saudi Arabia
– 3rd Floor Al Dahna Center, 114 Al-Ahsa  
Street, PO Box 1454, Riyadh 11431
Barclays Saudi Arabia (In Liquidation)

Singapore
– 10 Marina Boulevard, #24-01 Marina Bay 
Financial Centre, Tower 2, 018983 
Barclays Bank (Singapore Nominees) Pte Ltd 
(In Liquidation)
Barclays Bank (South East Asia) Nominees Pte 
Ltd (In Liquidation)
Barclays Capital Futures (Singapore) Private 
Limited
Barclays Capital Holdings (Singapore) Private 
Limited
Barclays Merchant Bank (Singapore) Ltd.

Spain
– Calle Jose, Abascal 51, 28003, Madrid
Barclays Tenedora De Immuebles SL.
BVP Galvani Global, S.A.U.

Switzerland
– Chemin de Grange Canal 18-20, PO Box 
3941, 1211, Geneva  
Barclays Bank (Suisse) S.A.
Barclays Switzerland Services SA
BPB Holdings SA

United States
 – Corporation Trust Company, Corporation 
Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington 
DE 19801
Archstone Equity Holdings Inc
Barclays BWA, Inc.
Barclays Capital Derivatives Funding LLC C
Barclays Capital Energy Inc.
Barclays Capital Holdings Inc. G, H, I
Barclays Capital Real Estate Finance Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Holdings Inc.
Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc.
Barclays Commercial Mortgage Securities LLC C
Barclays Electronic Commerce Holdings Inc.
Barclays Financial LLC C
Barclays Group US Inc. G, I
Barclays Oversight Management Inc.
Barclays Receivables LLC C
Barclays Services Corporation
Barclays US CCP Funding LLC C
Barclays US Funding LLC C
Barclays US Investments Inc. J, K

Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
Barclays US LLC I, U
BCAP LLC C
Crescent Real Estate Member LLC C
Gracechurch Services Corporation
Long Island Holding A LLC C
LTDL Holdings LLC C
Marbury Holdings LLC C
Protium Finance I LLC C
Protium Master Mortgage LP B
Protium REO I LP B
Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC C
Sutton Funding LLC C
TPLL LLC C
TPProperty LLC C
US Secured Investments LLC JJ
– 1201 North Market Street, P.O. Box 1347  
Wilmington, DE19801
Barclays Bank Delaware F, I
Procella Investments LLC C
Procella Investments No.1 LLC C
Procella Investments No.2 LLC C 
Procella Investments No.3 LLC C
Verain Investments LLC
– 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808 
Analog Analytics Inc
Protium Master Grantor Trust D
– 251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle County, 
Wilmington DE 19808
Barclays Capital Equities Trading GP B
Lagalla Investments LLC
Relative Value Holdings, LLC
Surrey Funding Corporation
Sussex Purchasing Corporation
– 745 Seventh Avenue, New York NY 10019
Alynore Investments Limited Partnership B
Barclays Payment Solutions Inc.
Curve Investments GP B
Preferred Liquidity, LLC J
– CT Corporation System, One Corporate 
Center, Floor 11, Hartford CT 06103-3220 
Barclays Capital Inc.
– c/o RL&F Service Corp, One Rodney Square, 
10th Floor, Tenth and King Streets, 
Wilmington DE 19801
Analytical Trade Holdings LLC
Analytical Trade Investments LLC BB
– 100 South West Street, Wilmington DE 
19801 
Barclays Dryrock Funding LLC C
Wilmington Riverfront Receivables LLC J, K
– 15 East North Street, Dover DE 19801
Barclays Services LLC C
– CT Corporation System, 225 Hillsborough 
Street, Raleigh, NC 27603 
Barclays US GPF Inc.
– CT Corporation System, 350 North St. Paul  
Street, Dallas TX 75201 
La Torretta Beverages LLC C
La Torretta Hospitality LLC C
La Torretta Operations LLC C
– 500 Forest Point Circle, Charlotte, 
North Carolina 28273
Equifirst Corporation (In Liquidation)
– Aon Insurance Managers (USA) Inc.,  
76 St. Paul Street, Suite 500, Burlington, 
VT05401-4477 
Barclays Insurance U.S. Inc.

Zimbabwe
– 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business 
Park, Mount Pleasant , Harare 
Branchcall Computers (Pvt) Limited

44 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
358 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Notes to the financial statements

Other disclosure mattersOther disclosure matters

Other Related Undertakings
Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings 
below are consolidated and the share capital 
disclosed comprises ordinary and/or common 
shares which are held by subsidiaries of 
the Group. The Group's overall ownership 
percentage is provided for each undertaking.
Other Related Undertakings  Percentage Note
United Kingdom                            
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP 
Barclaycard Funding PLC 75.00% J
PSA Credit Company Limited 
(In Liquidation) 50.00% J, L
Barclays Covered Bond Funding LLP 50.00% B
– 1 Poultry, London, England,  
EC2R 8EJ
Igloo Regeneration (General Partner) 
Limited 25.00% L, Z
– 3-5 London Road, Rainham, Kent, 
ME8 7RG
Trade Ideas Limited 20.00% Z
– Derby Training Centre, Ascot Drive, 
Derby, DE24 8GW
Develop Training Group Limited 65.47% CC, Z
– 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, 
Edinburgh, EH3 9BY
Equistone Founder Partner II L.P. 20.00% B, Z
Equistone Founder Partner III L.P. 35.00% B, Z
– Building 6 Chiswick Park, 566 
Chiswick High Road, London, 
W4 5HR
Intelligent Processing Solutions 
Limited 19.50% Z
– 20-22 Bedford Row, London,  
WC1R 4JS 
Cyber Defence Alliance Limited 25.00% E, Z
– 30 Gresham Street, London, 
EC2V 7PG
Gresham Leasing March (3) Limited 30.00% Z
– 80 New Bond Street, London,  
W1S 1SB
GW City Ventures Limited 50.00% K, Z
– 5th Floor, 70 Gracechurch Street, 
London, EC3V 0XL 
Camperdown UK Limited 50.00% J, Z
– 2nd Floor, 110 Cannon Street, 
London, EC4N 6EU 
Vectorcommand Limited 
(In Liquidation) 30.39% J, K, Z
– 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU
Formerly H Limited (In Liquidation) 70.32% J, Z
– 15 Canada Square, London,  
E14 5GL
Woolwich Countryside Limited 
(In Liquidation) 50.00% N, Z
– Haberfield Old Moor Road, 
Wennington, Lancaster, LA2 8PD
Full House Holdings Limited 67.43% J, Z
– 6th Floor 60 Gracechurch Street, 
London, EC3V 0HR
BMC (UK) Limited 40.18% F,  J, Z
– Central House, 124 High Street, 
Hampton Hill, Middlesex , TW12 1NS
Rio Laranja Holdings Limited 45.00% J, Z
– 13-15 York Buildings, London,  
WC2N 6JU
BGF Group Limited 24.48% Z
– Hill House, 1 Little New Street, 
London, EC4A 3TR
Claas Finance Limited (In Liquidation) 51.00% K
– Gate House, Turnpike Road, 
High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, 
HP12 3NR
GN Tower Limited 50.00% Z
– Victoria Works, Thrumpton Lane, 
Retford, Nottinghamshire, DN22 6HH
Crosslink Technology Holdings Limited 19.97% F, K, Z

Other Related Undertakings  Percentage Note

Cayman Islands  
– Maples Corporate  Services Limited, 
PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, South 
Church Street, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1104
Cupric Canyon Capital LP 40.19% HH, Z
Cupric Canyon Capital GP Limited 50.00% Z
Southern Peaks Mining LP 55.69% HH, Z
SPM GP Limited 90.10% Z
Third Energy Holdings Limited 78.94% F, J, K, Z 

Germany
– Schopenhauerstraße 10, D-90409, 
Nurnberg
Eschenbach Holding GmbH 21.70% Z
Eschenbach Optik GmbH 21.70% Z

Korea, Republic of
– 18th Floor, Daishin Finance Centre, 
343, Samil-daero, Jung-go, Seoul
Woori BC Pegasus 70.00% W
Securitization Specialty Co., Limited

Luxembourg
– 9, allée Scheffer, L-2520
BNRI Limehouse No.1 Sarl 96.30% R
Partnership Investments S.à r.l. 33.40% I, J ,K ,L
Preferred Funding S.à r.l. 33.33% FF
Preferred Investments S.à r.l. 33.33% FF, I

Malta
– RS2 Buildings, Fort Road, Mosta 
MST 1859
RS2 Software PLC 18.25% Z

Monaco
– 31 Avenue de la Costa, Monte Carlo 
Societe Civile Immobiliere 31 Avenue 
de la Costa 75.00%

Netherlands
– Alexanderstraat 18, 2514 JM,
The Hague
Tulip Oil Holding BV 30.36% II, Z

South Africa
– 9 Elektron Road, Techno Park, 
Stellenbosch 7600 
Imalivest Mineral Resources LP 66.41% J, K, Z

Sweden
– c/o ForeningsSparbanken AB, 
105 34 Stockholm 
EnterCard Group AB 40.00% K, Z

United States of America
– 777 Main Street, Fort Worth 
TX 76102
CRE Diversified Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Legacy LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Crown Land Holding SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential LP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent Plaza Residential, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Resort Development LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z
Crescent Tower Residences, L.P. 80.00% B, Z
Crescent TRS Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
CREW Tahoe Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
CREW Tahoe LLC 60.80% C, Z
DBL Texas Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z
Desert Mountain Development LLC 80.00% C, Z

Other Related Undertakings  Percentage Note
Desert Mountain Properties Limited 
Partnership 

74.40% B, Z

East West Resort Development V, L.P., 
L.L.L.P.

74.75% B, Z

East West Resort Development VII LLC 80.00% C, Z
Gray's Station, LLC 56.96% C, Z
Mira Vista Development LLC 78.40% C, Z
Mira Vista Golf Club, L.C. 76.83% Z
Mountainside Partners LLC 80.00% C, Z
MVWP Investors LLC 60.80% C, Z
Northstar Mountain Properties, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Northstar Trailside Townhomes, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Northstar Village Townhomes, LLC 56.93% C, Z
Tahoe Club Company, LLC 60.80% C, Z
Tahoe Club Employee Company 60.80% Z
– 126 Riverfront Lane , 5th Floor, 
Drawer 2770, Avon, CO 81620
Blue River Land Company, LLC 39.55% C, Z
East West Resort Development XIV, 
L.P., L.L.L.P. 33.52% B, Z
EWRD Summit, LLC 79.10% C, Z
– 1701 Wynkoop Street, Suite 140, 
Box 47, Denver, CO 80202
Central Platte Valley Management, LLC 51.78% C, Z
St. Charles Place, LLC 47.63% C, Z
The Park at One Riverfront, LLC 47.63% C, Z
Union Center LLC 51.78% C, Z
– Corporation Trust Company, 
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 
Orange Street, Wilmington DE 19801
DG Solar Lessee II, LLC 50.00% C, Z
DG Solar Lessee, LLC 50.00% C, Z
VS BC Solar Lessee I LLC 50.00% C, Z
– 1415 Louisiana Street, Suite 1600, 
Houston, Texas, 77002
Sabine Oil & Gas Holdings, Inc. 23.25% Z

Subsidiaries by virtue of control
The related undertakings below are 
subsidiaries in accordance with s.1162 
Companies Act 2006 as Barclays can exercise 
dominant influence or control over them.
Subsidiaries by virtue of control  Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Oak Pension Asset 00.00% Z
Management Limited
Water Street Investments Limited 00.00% Z

Cayman Islands
– PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, 
South Church Street, Grand Cayman,  
KY1-1104
Hornbeam Limited 00.00% Z
Barclays US Holdings Limited 10.00% J

Joint Ventures
The related undertakings below are Joint 
Ventures in accordance with s. 18, Schedule 4, 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 and are proportionally consolidated.
Joint Ventures  Percentage Note
United Kingdom
– All Saints Triangle, Caledonian 
Road, London, N1 9UT
Vaultex UK Limited 50.00% Z
Joint management factors
The Joint Venture Board comprises two Barclays 
representative Directors, two JV partner Directors and 
three non-JV partner Directors. The Board are responsible 
for setting the company strategy and budgets.

44 Related undertakings continued

<Page End><Page Start>
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 359

Strategic report
G

overn
an

ce
R

isk review
Fin

an
cial review

Fin
an

cial statem
en

ts
Sh

areh
older in

form
ation

Barclays shareholding
Shareholder information

Ch
ar

in
g 

Cr
os

s

Waterloo

Victoria

St. James's Park

St. James's Park

Green Park

Lambeth
North

Westminster
Bridge

Lambeth
Bridge

Horseferry Road

Br
oa

d 
Sa

nc
tu

ar
y

St
ra

nd

Victoria Street

Pa
ll M

al
l

Th
e M

all

W
es

tm
in

st
er

Pa
rl

ia
m

en
t 

St
re

et
A

b
in

g
d

o
n

 S
tr

ee
t

V
ic

to
ri

a 
Em

ba
n

km
en

t

R
iv

er
 T

h
am

es
R

iv
er

 T
h

am
es

River Thames

QEII
Centre

Key dates 
5 April 2019
Full year dividend payment date

25 April 2019
Q1 Results Announcement

2 May 2019
Annual General Meeting, at 11.00am

17 September 2019
Half year dividend payment date

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
This year's AGM will be held at the 
QEII Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on 
Thursday, 2 May 2019 at 11.00am.

The Chairman and Chief Executive 
will update shareholders on our 
performance in 2018 and our goals for 
2019. Shareholders will also have the 
opportunity to ask the Board questions  
at the meeting.

You can find out more at:  
home.barclays/agm

Keep your personal details up to date
Please remember to tell Equiniti if:
■■ you move
■■ you need to update your bank or building 

society details.

If you are a Shareview member, you can 
update your bank or building society account 
or address details online. If you hold 2,500 
shares or less, you can update details quickly 
and easily over the telephone using the 
Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you hold 
more than 2,500 shares you will need to write 
to Equiniti.

Dividends 
The Barclays PLC 2018 full year dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2018 will be 4.0p per 
share, making the 2018 total dividend 6.5p.

Barclays understands the importance of 
the ordinary dividend for our shareholders. 
Barclays is therefore committed to maintaining 
an appropriate balance between total cash 
returns to shareholders, investing in the 
business, and maintaining a strong 
capital position. 

Going forward, Barclays intends to pay an 
annual ordinary dividend that takes into 
account these objectives, and the medium-
term earnings outlook of the Barclays Group. 
It is also the Board's intention to supplement 
the ordinary dividends with additional returns 
to shareholders as and when appropriate.

The Board notes that in determining any 
proposed distributions to shareholders, 
the Board will consider the expectation 
of servicing more senior securities.

Save time and receive your dividends faster 
by choosing to have them paid directly into 
your bank or building society account
It is easy to set up and your money will be in 
your bank account on the dividend payment 
date. If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can 
provide your bank or building society details 
quickly and easily over the telephone using 
the Equiniti contact details overleaf. If you 
hold more than 2,500 shares, please contact 
Equiniti for details of how to change your 
payment instruction.

Scrip Dividend Programme
Shareholders can choose to have their 
dividends reinvested in new ordinary Barclays 
shares through the Scrip Dividend Programme.

More information, including the Terms and 
Conditions and application form, are available 
on our website.

To find out more, contact Equiniti or visit: 
home.barclays/dividends

How do Barclays 
shareholders receive 

their dividends?

 Direct to bank account 57%
 Cheque 20.5%
 Scrip Dividend Programme (new shares) 22.5%

<Page End><Page Start>
360 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport

Barclays shareholding
Shareholder information

Managing your shares online
Shareview
Barclays shareholders can go online to 
manage their shareholding and find out about 
Barclays performance by joining Shareview.

Through Shareview, you:
■■ will receive the latest updates from Barclays 

direct to your email
■■ can update your address and bank details 

online
■■ can vote in advance of general meetings.

To join Shareview, please follow these three 
easy steps:

Step 1 Go to portfolio.shareview.co.uk

Step 2   Register for electronic 
communications by following the 
instructions on screen

Step 3  You will be sent an activation code 
in the post the next working day

Returning funds to shareholders
Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash 
their Shares Not Taken Up (SNTU) cheque 
following the Rights Issue in September 
2013. In 2018, we continued the tracing 
process to reunite these shareholders 
with their SNTU monies and any 
unclaimed dividends and by the end of 
the year, we had returned approximately 
£65,000 to our shareholders, in addition 
to the approximately £212,000 returned 
in 2017, £1.65m returned in 2016 and 
£2.2m in 2015.

Donations to charity
We launched a Share Dealing Service in 
October 2017 aimed at shareholders with 
relatively small shareholdings for whom it 
might otherwise be uneconomical to deal. 
One option open to shareholders was to 
donate their sale proceeds to ShareGift.  
As a result of this initiative, £46,957 was 
donated in 2018, taking the total donated 
since 2015 to over £345,000.

Useful contact details
Equiniti

  The Barclays share register is maintained 
by Equiniti. If you have any questions 
about your Barclays shares, please 
contact Equiniti by visiting 
shareview.co.uk 

  Equiniti 
 0371 384 2055a  
(in the UK)

   +44 121 415 7004  
(from overseas)

   0371 384 2255a  
(for the hearing impaired in the UK)

   +44 121 415 7028  
(for the hearing impaired  
from overseas)

  Aspect House, Spencer Road,  
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays PLC 
shares which are traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange. ADRs carry prices, and pay 
dividends, in US dollars.

  If you have any questions about 
ADRs, please contact J.P.Morgan: 
jpmorgan.adr@eq-us.com 
or visit adr.com

  J.P.Morgan Shareholder Services  
 +1 800 990 1135  
(toll free in US and Canada)

   +1 651 453 2128  
(outside the US and Canada)

  JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.  
PO Box 64504 
St Paul 
MN 55164-0504  
USA

Shareholder Relations
  To give us your feedback or if you  

have any questions, please contact:
privateshareholderrelations@barclays.com

    Shareholder Relations  
Barclays PLC 
1 Churchill Place  
London E14 5HP

Share price
  Information on the Barclays share price 

and other share price tools are available 
at: home.barclays/investorrelations

Alternative formats

Shareholder documents  
can be provided in large print, 
audio CD or Braille free of 
charge by calling Equiniti.

0371 384 2055a  
(in the UK)

+44 121 415 7004  
(from overseas)

Audio versions of the 
Strategic Report will also  
be available at the AGM.

Shareholder security
Shareholders should be wary of any cold 
calls with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-
pressure techniques to lure shareholders 
into high-risk investments or scams. 
You should treat any unsolicited calls 
with caution.

Please keep in mind that firms authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
are unlikely to contact you out of the blue. 
You should consider getting independent 
financial or professional advice from 
someone unconnected to the respective 
firm before you hand over any money.

Report a scam
If you suspect that you have been 
approached by fraudsters please tell the 
FCA using the share fraud reporting form 
at fca.org.uk/scams. You can also call the 
FCA Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or through 
Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.

Note
a Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm (UK time) Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.

<Page End><Page Start>
Notes
The terms Barclays or Barclays Group refer to Barclays PLC 
together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the 
income statement analysis compares the year ended 31 
December 2018 to the corresponding twelve months of 2017 
and balance sheet analysis as at 31 December 2018 with 
comparatives relating to 31 December 2017. The 
abbreviations ‘£m' and ‘£bn' represent millions and 
thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively; the 
abbreviations ‘$m' and ‘$bn' represent millions and 
thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively; the 
abbreviations ‘€m' and ‘€bn' represent millions and 
thousands of millions of Euros respectively.

There are a number of key judgement areas, for example 
impairment calculations, which are based on models and 
which are subject to ongoing adjustment and modifications. 
Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at 
the given point in time.

Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not 
defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are explained in the 
results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/
results.

The information in this announcement, which was approved 
by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2019, does not 
comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 
434 of the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2018, which contain an unqualified 
audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 
(which does not make any statements under Section 498 of 
the Companies Act 2006) will be delivered to the Registrar of 
Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies 
Act 2006.

These results will be filed as a Form 20-F to the SEC as soon 
as practicable following their publication. Once filed with the 
SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will also be available from the 
Barclays Investor Relations website at home.barclays/results 
and from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and 
regularly meets with investors via formal road-shows and 
other ad hoc meetings. Consistent with its usual practice, 
Barclays expects that from time to time over the coming 
quarter it will meet with investors globally to discuss these 
results and other matters relating to the Barclays Group..

Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays' management believes that the non-IFRS 
performance measures included in this document provide 
valuable information to the readers of the financial 
statements as they enable the reader to identify a more 
consistent basis for comparing the businesses' performance 
between financial periods and provide more detail concerning 
the elements of performance which the managers of these 
businesses are most directly able to influence or are relevant 
for an assessment of the Barclays Group. They also reflect an 
important aspect of the way in which operating targets are 
defined and performance is monitored by Barclays' 
management. However, any non-IFRS performance measures 
in this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and 
readers should consider the IFRS measures as well. Refer to 
pages 223 to 227 for further information and calculations of 
non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this 
document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.

Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the 
US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the 
Barclays Group. Barclays cautions readers that no 
forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future 
performance and that actual results or other financial 
condition or performance measures could differ materially 
from those contained in the forward-looking statements. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the 
fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. 
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as 
‘may', ‘will', ‘seek', ‘continue', ‘aim', ‘anticipate', ‘target', 
‘projected', ‘expect', ‘estimate', ‘intend', ‘plan', ‘goal', ‘believe', 
‘achieve' or other words of similar meaning. Examples of 
forward-looking statements include, among others, 
statements or guidance regarding or relating to the Barclays 
Group's future financial position, income growth, assets, 
impairment charges, provisions, business strategy, capital, 
leverage and other regulatory ratios, payment of dividends 
(including dividend payout ratios and expected payment 
strategies), projected levels of growth in the banking and 
financial markets, projected costs or savings, any 
commitments and targets, estimates of capital expenditures, 
plans and objectives for future operations, projected 
employee numbers, IFRS 9 impacts and other statements that 
are not historical fact. By their nature, forward-looking 
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
future events and circumstances. These may be affected by 
changes in legislation, the development of standards and 
interpretations under International Financial Reporting 
Standards including the continuing impact of IFRS 9 
implementation, evolving practices with regard to the 
interpretation and application of accounting and regulatory 
standards, the outcome of current and future legal 
proceedings and regulatory investigations, future levels of 
conduct provisions, the policies and actions of governmental 
and regulatory authorities, geopolitical risks and the impact of 
competition. In addition, factors including (but not limited to) 
the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other 
regulatory rules applicable to past, current and future periods; 
UK, US, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and business 
conditions; the effects of any volatility in credit markets; 
market related risks such as changes in interest rates and 
foreign exchange rates; effects of changes in valuation of 
credit market exposures; changes in valuation of issued 
securities; volatility in capital markets; changes in credit 
ratings of any entities within the Barclays Group or any 
securities issued by such entities; the potential for one or 
more countries exiting the Eurozone; instability as a result of 
the exit by the United Kingdom from the European Union and 
the disruption that may subsequently result in the UK and 
globally; and the success of future acquisitions, disposals and 
other strategic transactions. A number of these influences 
and factors are beyond the Barclays Group's control. As a 
result, the Barclays Group's actual future results, dividend 
payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ 
materially from the plans, goals, expectations and guidance 
set forth in the Barclays Group's forward-looking statements. 
Additional risks and factors which may impact the Barclays 
Group's future financial condition and performance are 
identified in our filings with the SEC (including, without 
limitation, our Annual Report on form 20-F for the fiscal year 
ended 31 December 2018), which are available on the SEC's 
website at www.sec.gov.

Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and 
regulations of the United Kingdom and the United States in 
relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake 
no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.

This report is printed on Revive 100 Offset, made from 100% 
FSC Recycled certified fibre sourced from de-inked 
post-consumer waste. The printer and the manufacturing mill 
are both credited with ISO 14001 Environmental Management 
Systems Standard and both are FSC certified. The mill also 
holds EMAS, the EU Eco-label. Revive 100 Offset is a Carbon 
balanced paper which means that the carbon emissions 
associated with its manufacture have been measured and 
offset using the World Land Trust's Carbon Balanced scheme. 

<Page End><Page Start>
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP 
© Barclays Bank PLC 2019 [????????]
Registered in England. Registered No: 48839
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn fhflondon.co.uk

<Page End>